भारतीय �रज़वर् बैंक
RESERVE BANK OF INDIA
RBI/DOR/2025-26/330
DOR.LRG.REC.No.249/13-10-005/2025-26 November 28, 2025
Reserve Bank of India (All India Financial Institutions – Asset Liability
Management) Directions, 2025
Table of Contents
Chapter I – Preliminary ......................................................................................................... 3
A. Short Title and Commencement ............................................................................... 3
B. Applicability ................................................................................................................ 3
C. Definitions ................................................................................................................... 3
Chapter II – Role of Board ................................................................................................ 5
A. Responsibilities of the Board ................................................................................... 5
B. Approval of policies, limits, and reviews ................................................................. 5
Chapter III – Asset Liability Management Governance ..................................................... 6
A. Introduction ................................................................................................................ 6
B. ALM Information System ........................................................................................... 6
C. ALM Organisation ...................................................................................................... 7
D. Composition of ALCO ................................................................................................ 7
E. ALM Process .............................................................................................................. 8
Chapter IV – Liquidity Risk Management ........................................................................... 9
A. Management of Liquidity Risk .................................................................................. 9
B. Statement of Liquidity ............................................................................................. 10
Chapter V – Management of Currency Risk ..................................................................... 13
Chapter VI – Interest Rate Risk Management (IRR) ......................................................... 14
A. Introduction .............................................................................................................. 14
B. Traditional Gap Analysis ......................................................................................... 14
C. Interest Rate Sensitivity Statement ........................................................................ 15
Chapter VII – General .......................................................................................................... 16
A. Behavioural Pattern and Embedded Options ........................................................ 16
B. Internal Transfer Pricing .......................................................................................... 16
Chapter VIII – Monitoring and Reporting .......................................................................... 17
A. Preparation and Review of Statements .................................................................. 17

B. Regulatory Reporting and Periodicity of Returns ................................................. 17
Chapter IX – Repeal and Other Provisions ....................................................................... 18
A. Repeal and Saving ................................................................................................... 18
B. Application of other laws not barred ...................................................................... 18
C. Interpretations .......................................................................................................... 19
Annex-I: Statement of Liquidity in Indian Rupees ...................................................... 20
Annex-I-A: Statement of Liquidity in Foreign Currency .............................................. 23
Annex–II: Interest Rate Sensitivity Statement for Rupee Assets and Liabilities - AIFI
25
Annex-II-A: Interest Rate Sensitivity Statement for Foreign Currency Assets and
Liabilities .......................................................................................................................... 29
Annex III: Maturity Profile for Statement of Liquidity ................................................... 32
Annex IV: Interest Rate Sensitivity Profile .................................................................... 41
2

In exercise of the powers conferred by Section 45L of the Reserve Bank
of India Act, 1934, and all other provisions / laws enabling the Reserve Bank of India
(‘RBI’) in this regard, RBI being satisfied that it is necessary and expedient in the
public interest so to do, hereby, issues the Directions hereinafter specified.
Chapter I – Preliminary
A. Short Title and Commencement
1 These Directions shall be called the Reserve Bank of India (All India Financial
Institutions – Asset Liability Management) Directions, 2025.
B. Applicability
2 These Directions shall be applicable to All India Financial Institutions
(hereinafter collectively referred to as ‘AIFIs’ and individually as an ‘AIFI’), viz.,
Export Import Bank of India (‘EXIM Bank’), National Bank for Agriculture and
Rural Development (‘NABARD’), Small Industries Development Bank of India
(‘SIDBI’), National Housing Bank (‘NHB’), and National Bank for Financing
Infrastructure and Development (‘NaBFID’).
3 These Directions shall become effective from the date of issue.
C. Definitions
4 In these Directions, unless the context otherwise requires, the terms herein
shall bear the meaning as assigned to them below:
(1) ‘Interest Rate Risk’ is the risk where changes in market interest rates
might adversely affect an AIFI’s financial condition.
(2) ‘Gap’ is the difference between Rate Sensitive Assets (RSA) and Rate
Sensitive Liabilities (RSL) for individual time bucket.
(3) ‘Liquidity Risk’ means inability of an AIFI to meet cash and collateral
obligations as they become due, without adversely affecting its financial
condition.
(4) ‘Stress Test’ means evaluation of the financial position of an AIFI under a
severe but plausible scenario to assist in decision making within the AIFI.
3

5 All other expressions unless defined herein shall have the same meaning as
have been assigned to them under the BR Act, the RBI Act, rules / regulations
made thereunder, or any statutory modification or re-enactment thereto or as
used in commercial parlance, as the case may be.
4

Chapter II – Role of Board
A. Responsibilities of the Board
6 The Board shall have overall responsibility for management of risks and shall
decide the risk management policy of an AIFl and set limits for liquidity, interest
rate, exchange rate, and equity price risks. The Board shall constitute a
Management Committee or any other specific Committee, that shall oversee
the implementation of the Asset Liability Management (ALM) system and
review its functioning periodically.
B. Approval of policies, limits, and reviews
7 The Board shall formulate policy and strategy to manage liquidity risk, including
the liquidity risk tolerance.
8 The Board / Asset Liability Management Committee (ALCO) shall approve the
volume, composition, maximum maturity / duration, holding, and cut loss limits
for the Trading Book. Where the Board is satisfied that the AIFI has necessary
risk management capabilities, it shall adopt an integrated Value at Risk (VaR)
limit for the entire balance sheet, including the "Banking Book" and the "Trading
Book", for the rupee as well as foreign currency portfolio.
9 Where an AIFI has adequate MIS and technical capability, the Board / ALCO
shall ensure to move to the modern techniques of Interest Rate Risk
measurement like Duration Gap Analysis, Simulation, and Value at Risk
10 The Board / ALCO shall approve internal prudential limits for cumulative
negative liquidity gaps across all time buckets.
11 The Board / ALCO shall approve the prudential limits for interest rate gaps in
various time buckets. Such limits on interest rate risk shall be set as simple gap
limits or in terms of impact on Net Interest Income (NII) / Net Interest Margin
(NIM) or Earnings at Risk (EaR) of the AIFI.
12 The Board / ALCO shall approve the classification of components of assets and
liabilities in the appropriate time buckets, through reasonable estimation of
behavioural patterns, embedded options, and rolls-in and rolls-out based on
past data or empirical studies.
5

Chapter III – Asset Liability Management Governance
A. Introduction
13 An AIFI shall establish an ALM framework for measuring, monitoring, and
managing liquidity risk, interest rate risk, and foreign exchange risks. The
system shall involve the identification and assessment of various types of risks
and enable dynamic adjustment of balance sheet items (assets and liabilities)
to manage these risks effectively.
14 The ALM system shall introduce a formalised framework for management of
market risks through measuring, monitoring and managing liquidity, exchange
rate, and interest rate risks of an AIFI that need to be closely integrated with the
AIFI’s business strategy. The ALM function shall also endeavour to enforce the
discipline of market risk management, viz., managing business after assessing
the market risks involved.
15 ALM process rests on following three pillars:
(1) ALM Information System comprising:
(i) Management Information System; and
(ii) Availability, accuracy, adequacy and expediency of information.
(2) ALM Organisation comprising:
(i) Structure and responsibilities; and
(ii) Level of top management involvement.
(3) ALM Process comprising:
(i) Risk parameters;
(ii) Risk identification;
(iii) Risk measurement;
(iv) Risk management; and
(v) Risk policies and tolerance levels.
B. ALM Information System
16 The ALM framework shall be supported by risk policies and tolerance limits.
The Top Management shall ensure the implementation of necessary
information system and availability of timely, adequate, and accurate
information, which shall be central to the ALM process.
6

17 An AIFI shall, at a minimum, establish systems sufficient to generate liquidity
gap and interest rate gap reports in accordance with these Directions.
C. ALM Organisation
18 The Top Management of the AIFI shall be responsible for successful
implementation of the risk management framework. The risk management
framework shall be integrated with the AIFI’s basic operations and strategic
decision-making.
19 An AIFI shall set up an ALCO as a decision-making unit responsible for
integrated balance sheet management from a risk-return perspective, including
the strategic management of interest rate and liquidity risks. While each AIFI
shall define the roles, responsibilities, and powers of its ALCO, its responsibility
would normally include:
(1) monitoring the market risk levels of the AIFl by ensuring adherence to the
various risk limits set by the Board;
(2) articulating the current interest rate view and a view on future direction of
interest rate movements. Future business strategy shall be aligned with
the interest rate outlook as also on other parameters considered relevant;
(3) deciding the business strategy of the AIFl, both on the assets and
liabilities sides, consistent with the AIFl’s interest rate view, budget, and
pre-determined risk management objectives. This shall, in turn, include:
(i) the desired maturity profile and mix of the assets and liabilities;
(ii) product pricing on both assets and liabilities side; and
(iii) funding strategy covering the source and mix of liabilities or sale of
assets; the proportion of fixed vs. floating rate funds, wholesale vs.
retail funds, money market vs. capital market funding, and domestic vs.
foreign currency funding.
(4) reviewing the implementation status and outcomes of the decisions taken
in the previous meetings.
D. Composition of ALCO
20 The composition of ALCO in an AIFI shall depend on the size of the AIFI,
business mix and its organisational complexity. The CEO / CMD / DMD or the
ED should head the Committee. The Top Management from various relevant
7

functions / departments shall be represented in the ALCO. The ALCO shall
include, as its members, the Heads of Investment, Credit, Resources
Management, Treasury, Risk Management, and other members as deemed
suitable. An AIFI shall decide the frequency of ALCO meetings.
21 An AIFI may also constitute an ALM Support Group, consisting of the operating
staff, which shall be responsible for analysing, monitoring, and reporting the risk
profiles to the ALCO. The staff shall also prepare forecasts (simulations)
reflecting the impact of various possible changes in market conditions on the
balance sheet and recommend the action needed to adhere to internal limits.
E. ALM Process
22 The scope of ALM function shall cover the following:
(1) Liquidity risk management;
(2) Management of market risks;
(3) Trading risk management;
(4) Funding and capital planning; and
(5) Profit planning and growth projection.
8

Chapter IV – Liquidity Risk Management
A. Management of Liquidity Risk
23 An AIFI should assess the risks resulting from its inability to meet its obligations
as they come due, because of difficulty in liquidating assets (market liquidity
risk) or in obtaining adequate funding (funding liquidity risk). This assessment
should include analysis of sources and uses of funds, an understanding of the
funding markets in which the AIFI operates, and an assessment of the efficacy
of a contingency funding plan for events that could arise. The Top Management
shall consider the relationship between liquidity and capital since liquidity risk
can impact capital adequacy which, in turn, can aggravate an AIFI’s liquidity
risks.
24 A key element in the management of liquidity risk is the need for strong liquidity
risk governance, including the setting of liquidity risk tolerance by the Board.
The risk tolerance shall be communicated throughout the AIFI and be reflected
in the strategy and policies that Top Management set to manage liquidity risk.
Further, an AIFI shall take into account the cost, benefit, and risk of liquidity into
its internal pricing, performance measurement, and new product approval
process of all significant business activities.
25 An AIFI shall ensure time bucketing of contingent cash flows emanating from
the off-balance sheet items as per the timing of the underlying cash flows for
the purpose of compiling the liquidity and interest rate gap reports, as
discussed in subsequent paragraphs.
26 An AIFI shall set up a robust framework to identify, measure, monitor, and
control liquidity risk. The framework shall project cash flows arising from assets,
liabilities, and off-balance sheet items over an appropriate set of time horizons.
The process shall also ensure diversification in both the tenor and source of
funding.
27 An AIFI shall utilise early warning indicators to identify the emergence of
increased risk or vulnerabilities in its liquidity position or funding needs. It shall
have the ability to control liquidity risk exposure and funding needs, regardless
of its organisation structure, within and across legal entities, business lines, and
9

currencies, taking into account any legal, regulatory and operational limitations
to the transferability of liquidity.
28 An AIFI shall perform stress tests or scenario analyses on a regular basis in
order to identify and quantify its exposures to possible future liquidity stresses,
analysing possible impacts on the institutions’ cash flows, liquidity positions,
profitability, and solvency. The results of these stress tests shall be discussed
thoroughly by the Top Management. These discussions, shall form the basis for
taking remedial or mitigating actions to limit the AIFI’s exposures, build up a
liquidity cushion, and adjust its liquidity profile to fit its risk tolerance. The
results of stress tests shall also play a key role in shaping the AIFI’s
contingency funding planning, which shall outline policies for managing a range
of stress events and clearly set out strategies for addressing liquidity shortfalls
in emergency situations.
B. Statement of Liquidity
29 An AIFI shall adopt the maturity ladder approach as the standard tool for
measuring and managing net funding requirements through preparation of
Statement of Liquidity as furnished in Annex-I.
30 The Maturity Profile, as detailed in Annex-III, shall be used for measuring the
future cash flows of AIFIs in different time buckets. The time buckets, shall be
distributed as under:
(1) 1 to 14 days;
(2) 15 to 28 days;
(3) 29 days and upto 3 months;
(4) Over 3 months and upto 6 months;
(5) Over 6 months and upto 1 year;
(6) Over 1 year and upto 3 years;
(7) Over 3 years and upto 5 years;
(8) Over 5 years and upto 7 years;
(9) Over 7 years and upto 10 years; and
(10) Over 10 years.
31 The securities which are held in the Trading Book shall be subject to the
following preconditions:
10

(1) The composition and volume of the Trading Book shall be clearly defined;
(2) Maximum maturity / duration of the trading portfolio shall be restricted;
(3) The holding period of the trading securities does not exceed 90 days;
(4) Cut-loss limit(s) shall be prescribed; and
(5) Such securities shall be marked-to-market on a daily / weekly basis and
the revaluation gain / loss shall be charged to the profit and loss account.
32 An AIFI is permitted to slot the securities in the Trading Book, consisting of
securities that comply with standards prescribed in paragraph 31, under the 1-
14 days, 15-28 days, and 29-90 days buckets on the basis of the defeasance
periods.
33 The Board / ALCO of the AIFI shall approve the volume, composition,
maximum maturity / duration, holding / defeasance period, and cut loss limits of
the Trading Book.
34 An AIFI that has the necessary risk management capabilities, shall have the
option, with the approval of its Board, to adopt an integrated Value at Risk
(VaR) limit for its entire balance sheet, including the "Banking Book" and the
"Trading Book", for the rupee as well as foreign currency portfolio. A copy of the
approved policy note in this regard, shall be submitted to the Department of
Supervision (DoS), Reserve Bank of India. An AIFI shall also be guided by the
Reserve Bank of India (All India Financial Institutions – Classification, Valuation
and Operation of Investment Portfolio) Directions, 2025.
35 Within each time bucket, an AIFI shall monitor mismatches arising from cash
inflows and outflows. The negative gap for 1-14 days and 15-28 days time-
buckets shall not exceed 10 per cent and 15 per cent respectively, of the cash
outflows in each time bucket. An AIFI shall also monitor the cumulative
mismatches (running total) across all time buckets by establishing internal
prudential limits approved by the Board / ALCO.
36 An AIFI shall prepare the Statement of Liquidity in the format prescribed at
Annex-I, by placing all cash inflows and outflows in the maturity ladder
according to the expected timing of cash flows. A maturing liability shall be a
cash outflow while a maturing asset will be a cash inflow.
37 The Statement of Liquidity would also take into account the rupee inflows and
outflows on account of forex operations. Thus, the foreign currency resources
raised abroad but swapped into rupees and deployed in rupee assets, would be
11

reflected in the rupee liquidity statement. Rupee loans to exporter clients
denominated in foreign currency in the books, which are extinguished by the
export proceeds, would be part of the rupee liquidity statement since such
loans are created out of rupee resources. As regards the foreign currency loans
granted out of foreign currency resources on a back-to-back basis, a currency-
wise liquidity statement for each of the foreign currencies in which liabilities and
assets have been created, will need to be prepared in formats at Annex I-
A and Annex-II-A, which are similar to the formats prescribed for rupee
resources.
12

Chapter V – Management of Currency Risk
38 In order to capture the Liquidity and Interest Rate Risk arising out of the foreign
currency portfolio, an AIFI shall prepare, on an ongoing basis, currency-wise
Statement of Liquidity and Interest Rate Sensitivity (IRS) Statement, separately
for each of the currencies in which it has an exposure. These statements shall
be prepared in the formats prescribed at Annex I-A and Annex-II-A, which are
similar to the formats prescribed for the rupee resources, at Annex-I and
Annex-II.
13

Chapter VI – Interest Rate Risk Management (IRR)
A. Introduction
39 Interest rate risk from ‘earnings perspective’ is the immediate impact of interest
rate changes on an AIFl's earnings (i.e., reported profits) through changes in its
NII. Interest rate risk from ‘economic value perspective’ is the long-term impact
of interest rate changes on an AIFl's MVE or Net Worth as the economic value
of its assets, liabilities, and off-balance sheet positions get affected due to
variation in market interest rates. The risk from the earnings perspective can be
measured as changes in the NII or NIM.
40 An AIFI shall use the Traditional Gap Analysis (TGA) to measure the interest
rate risk. Where an AIFI has adequate MIS and technical capability, it can
deploy advanced techniques of interest rate risk management like Duration
Gap Analysis, Simulation, and Value at Risk, with the approval of its Board /
ALCO, in addition to the Gap Analysis prescribed in the Directions.
B. Traditional Gap Analysis
41 Under TGA, an AIFI shall measure Gap or Mismatch risk by calculating Gaps,
i.e., difference between rate sensitive liabilities and rate sensitive assets
(including off-balance sheet positions), over different time intervals at a given
date. An asset or liability is normally classified as rate sensitive where:
(1) within the time interval under consideration, there is an associated cash
flow;
(2) the associated interest rate resets / re-prices contractually during the
interval;
(3) it is contractually pre-payable or withdrawable before the stated
maturities; and
(4) It is dependent on the changes in the Policy Rates by RBI.
42 An AIFI shall prepare the Gap Report by grouping rate sensitive liabilities,
assets and off-balance sheet positions into time buckets according to residual
maturity or next re-pricing period, whichever is earlier. All investments,
advances, deposits, borrowings, and purchased funds, that mature / re-price
within a specified timeframe, shall be treated as interest rate sensitive. Any
14

principal repayment of loan, including final principal payment and interim
instalment expected to be received within the time horizon shall also be
classified as rate sensitive. Interest bearing assets and liabilities that vary with
a reference rate and reprice at pre-determined intervals shall be treated as rate
sensitive at the time of repricing. While the interest rates on term deposits are
fixed during their currency, the tranches of advances portfolio with floating rates
shall be treated as rate sensitive.
C. Interest Rate Sensitivity Statement
43 An AIFI shall prepare Interest Rate Sensitivity statement as per the reporting
format provided in Annex-II.
44 An AIFI shall identify the interest rate gaps in the following time buckets:
(1) 1-28 days;
(2) 29 days and upto 3 months;
(3) Over 3 months and upto 6 months;
(4) Over 6 months and upto 1 year;
(5) Over 1 year and upto 3 years;
(6) Over 3 years and upto 5 years;
(7) Over 5 years and upto 7 years;
(8) Over 7 years and upto 10 years;
(9) Over 10 years; and
(10) Non-sensitive.
45 An AIFI shall slot the securities in the Trading Book as per their residual
maturity or repricing maturity for floating rate securities. The various items of
rate sensitive assets, liabilities and off-balance sheet items shall be classified
into respective time-buckets, as explained in Annex-IV.
46 An AIFI shall set prudential limits on individual Gaps with the approval of the
Board / ALCO. The prudential limits shall have a relationship with the Total
Assets, Earning Assets, or Equity. In addition to the interest rate gap limits, an
AIFI which has adequate systems in place may set the prudential limits linked
to EaR or NIM based on its views on interest rate movements, with the
approval of the Board / ALCO.
15

Chapter VII – General
A. Behavioural Pattern and Embedded Options
47 The classification of various components of assets and liabilities into different
time buckets for preparation of Gap reports (Liquidity and Interest Rate
Sensitivity) may be as indicated in Annex-I and Annex-II.
48 However, an AIFI which is better equipped to reasonably estimate the
behavioural pattern, embedded options, rolls-in and rolls-out, etc., of various
components of assets and liabilities on the basis of past data / empirical studies
may choose to classify them in the appropriate time buckets, subject to the
approval from its ALCO / Board. A copy of the note approved by the ALCO /
Board shall be sent to the Department of Supervision (DoS), RBI.
49 An AIFI shall assess and manage the risk arising from embedded options such
as premature closure of term deposits, early encashment of bonds, and
prepayment of loans and advances, which can significantly affect its liquidity
and interest rate risk profile, particularly during periods of market volatility. An
AIFI shall develop suitable mechanism, supported by empirical studies and
behavioural analysis, to estimate the future behaviour of assets, liabilities, and
off-balance sheet items to changes in market variables and estimate the impact
of embedded options. In the absence of adequate historical database, an AIFI
shall classify the entire amount payable under the embedded options in the
maturity ladder according to the residual period up to the earliest exercise date.
B. Internal Transfer Pricing
50 An AIFI shall implement a scientifically designed internal transfer pricing (ITP)
mechanism as part of its ALM system. The ITP model will assign value to funds
provided and funds used based on prevailing market interest rates and support
effective measurement and management of lending or credit spread, funding or
liability spread, and mismatch spread. The transfer pricing mechanism shall
enable centralisation of interest rate risk management, thereby facilitating
effective oversight and control, and also provide a rational and consistent
framework for the pricing of assets and liabilities.
16

Chapter VIII – Monitoring and Reporting
A. Preparation and Review of Statements
51. An AIFI shall prepare the Statement of Liquidity on a fortnightly basis, as per
Chapter IV.
52. An AIFI shall prepare the Interest Rate Sensitivity statement on a monthly
basis, as per Chapter VI.
53. Top Management / Board/ ALCO shall regularly review these statements and
formulate corrective measures and devise suitable strategies wherever needed.
B. Regulatory Reporting and Periodicity of Returns
54. An AIFI shall submit the Statement of Liquidity and the Interest Rate Sensitivity
Statement to Department of Supervision (DoS), RBI on a quarterly basis.
17

Chapter IX – Repeal and Other Provisions
A. Repeal and Saving
55 With the issue of these Directions, the existing Directions, instructions, and
guidelines relating to Asset Liability Management as applicable to All India
Financial Institutions stands repealed, as communicated vide circular
DOR.RRC.REC.302/33-01-010/2025-26 dated November 28, 2025. The
Directions, instructions and guidelines already repealed shall continue to
remain repealed.
56 Notwithstanding such repeal, any action taken or purported to have been taken,
or initiated under the repealed Directions, instructions, or guidelines shall
continue to be governed by the provisions thereof. All approvals or
acknowledgments granted under these repealed lists shall be deemed as
governed by these Directions. Further, the repeal of these directions,
instructions, or guidelines shall not in any way prejudicially affect:
(1) any right, obligation or liability acquired, accrued, or incurred thereunder;
(2) any, penalty, forfeiture, or punishment incurred in respect of any
contravention committed thereunder;
(3) any investigation, legal proceeding, or remedy in respect of any such
right, privilege, obligation, liability, penalty, forfeiture, or punishment as
aforesaid; and any such investigation, legal proceedings or remedy may
be instituted, continued, or enforced and any such penalty, forfeiture or
punishment may be imposed as if those directions, instructions, or
guidelines had not been repealed.
B. Application of other laws not barred
57 The provisions of these Directions shall be in addition to, and not in derogation
of the provisions of any other laws, rules, regulations, or Directions, for the time
being in force.
18

C. Interpretations
58 For the purpose of giving effect to the provisions of these Directions or in order
to remove any difficulties in the application or interpretation of the provisions of
these Directions, the RBI may, if it considers necessary, issue necessary
clarifications in respect of any matter covered herein and the interpretation of
any provision of these Directions given by the RBI shall be final and binding.
(Sunil T S Nair)
Chief General Manager
19

Annex-I: Statement of Liquidity in Indian Rupees
As on :
Name of the AIFI :
A. OUTFLOWS
(Amount in ₹ crore)
Items/ Time buckets 1 to 14 days 15 t0 28 29 days to 3 Over 3 to 6 Over 6 Over 1 year Over 3 to 5 Over 5 to 7 Over 7 to 10 Over 10 Total
days months months months to 1 to 3 years years years years years
year
1. Capital
a) Equity
b) Non-perpetual preference shares
2. Reserves & Surplus
3. Gifts, grants, donations and
Benefactions
4. Notes, bonds & debentures
a) Plain vanilla bonds/debentures
b) Bonds/debentures with embedded
options
c) Fixed rate Notes
5. Deposits
a) Term deposits from public
b) ICDs
c) CDs
6. Borrowings
a) Term money Borrowings
b) From RBI, Govt, & Others
7. Current Liabilities & Provisions:
a) Sundry
Creditors
b) Expenses Payable
c) Advance income received
d) Interest payable on bonds/deposits
e) Provisions (other than for NPAs
8. Contingent outflows
a) Letters of credit/guarantees
b) Loan commitments pending
disbursal
c) Lines of credit committed to other
institutions
d) Outflows on account of repos,
forward exchange contracts, forex-
rupee swaps (sell/buy), FRAs, IRS,
20

bills rediscounted
9. Others(specify)
A. TOTAL
OUTFLOWS (A)
B. INFLOWS
Items/ Time buckets Over 6
15 t0 28 29 days to 3 Over 3 to 6 Over 1 year Over 3 to 5 Over 5 to 7 Over 7 to 10 Over 10
1 to 14 days months to 1 Total
days months months to 3 years years years years years
year
1. Cash
2. Remittance in transit
3. Balances with RBI
4. Balances with other banks
a) Current account
b) Deposit /short-term deposits
c) Money at call & short notice
5. Investments - under various
categories as enumerated in Annex
III- (net of provisions)
6. Advances (performing)
a) Bills of exchange and promissory
notes discounted & rediscounted
b) Term loans (only rupee loans)
c) Corporate loans/short term loans
7. Non-performing loans under
various categories enumerated in
Annex III - (net of provisions and
ECGC claims received)
8. Inflows from assets on lease
9. Fixed assets (excluding assets on
lease)
10. Other assets
a) Intangible assets & other non-
cash flow items
21

b) Interest and other income
receivable
c) Others
11. Contingent inflows
a) Lines of credit committed by other
institutions
b) Bills rediscounted
c) Forward exchange contracts, forex
/rupee swaps (sell/buy)
d) Repayments against undisbursed
commitments
12. Others
B. TOTAL INFLOWS (B)
C. Mismatch (B - A)
D. Cumulative Mismatch
E. C as % of A
22

Annex-I-A: Statement of Liquidity in Foreign Currency
Name of the Currency:
(as on:)
Name of the AIFI:
A. OUTFLOWS
(Amt. in millions)
Items/ Time buckets 29 days Over 6 Over 1
1 to 14 15 t0 28 Over 3 to Over 3 to Over 5 to Over 7 to Over 10
to 3 months year to 3 Total
days days 6 months 5 years 7 years 10 years years
months to 1 year years
Item-wise details may be furnished under each category in the respective time- buckets
1. Bonds & notes issued
2. Other Borrowings
3. Interest payable on bonds/ notes/
borrowings
4. Contingent outflows
5. Others (specify)
A. Total Outflows (A)
B. INFLOWS
Items/ Time buckets 1 to 15 t0 28 29 days Over 3 to Over 6 Over 1 Over 3 to Over 5 to Over 7 to Over 10 Total
14 days to 3 6 months months year to 3 5 years 7 years 10 years years
days months to 1 year years
It em-wise deta ils may be furn ished under each category in the respec tive time- buc kets
1. Balances with other banks
2. Investments (if any)
3. Advances (performing)
4.Non-performing loans Under various
23

categories enumerated in Annex III (net of
provisions and ECGC claims received)
5. Other Assets
6.Contingent inflows
7. Other (please specify)
B. TOTAL Inflows (B)
C. Mismatch (B - A)
D. Cumulative mismatch
E. C as % percentage of A
24

Annex– II: Interest Rate Sensitivity Statement for Rupee Assets and Liabilities - AIFI
(as on: )
Name of the AIFI :
A. LIABILITIES
(Amount in ₹ crore)
Items/Time buckets 1 to 28 29 Over 3 Over 6 Over 1 Over 3 Over 5 Over 7 Over Non- Total
days days to to 6 months year to 5 to 7 to 10 10
3 months to 1 to 3 years years years years
months year years
1. Capital
a) Equity
b) Non-perpetual preference shares
2.Reserves & Surplus
3. Gifts, grants, donations &benefactions
4. Notes, bonds& debentures
a) Plain vanilla Bonds/debentures
b) Bonds/debentures with embedded options
c) Fixed rate Notes
d) Floating rate notes / bonds
5. Deposits
a) Term deposits from public
b) Floating rate term deposits
c) ICDs
25

d) CDs
6. Borrowings
a) Term money Borrowings
b) From RBI, Govt. & Others
7. Current Liabilities & provisions
a) Sundry Creditors
b) Expenses Payable
c) Swap adjustment a/c
d) Advance income received
e) Interest payable on Bonds/Deposits/ borrowings
f) Provisions (other than NPA)
8. Forward exchange contracts, rupee-forex swaps
(sell/buy), bills rediscounted, IRS/ FRAs
9. Others (specify)
A. TOTAL LIABILITIES (A)
Items/ Time buckets 1 to 28 29 Over 3 Over 6 Over 1 Over 3 Over 5 Over 7 Over Non- Total
days days to 6 month year to 5 to 7 to 10 10 sensiti
to 3 month s to 1 to 3 years years years years ve
month s year years
s
1. Cash
2. Remittance in transit
3. Balances with RBI
4. Balances with other banks
a) Current account
b) Deposit /short-term deposits
c) Money at call & short notice
26

5. Investments -
under various categories as enumerated in Annex III
- (net of provisions)
6. Advances (performing)
a) Bills of exchange and promissory notes
discounted & rediscounted
b) Term loans (only rupee loans)
c) Corporate loans/short term loans
7. Non-performing loans - under various categories
enumerated in Annex III- (net of provisions and
ECGC claims received)
8. Assets on lease
9. fixed assets (excluding assets on lease)
10. Other assets
a) Intangible assets & other non-cash flow items
b) Interest and other income receivable
c) Others
11. Contingent items
a) Bills rediscounted
b) Forward exchange contracts, forex-rupee swaps
(buy/sell), reverse repos
c) Repayments against undisbursed commitments
12. Others (specify)
C. TOTAL ASSETS (B)
D. I R GAP (B-A)
Other Products (Interest Rate)
(i) FRAs
(ii) IR Swaps
(iii) Options
(iv) Futures
(v) Others
(specify)
E. TOTAL OTHER PRODUCTS (D)
F. NET GAP (C-D)
G. CUMULATIVE GAP
H. E as % of B
27

28

Annex-II-A: Interest Rate Sensitivity Statement for Foreign Currency Assets and Liabilities
Name of the currency:
(as on :)
Name of the AIFI :
(Amount in millions)
A. LIABILITIES
Items/ Time buckets 1 to 28 29 Over 3 Over 6 Over Over Over Over Over Non- Total
days days to to 6 months 1 3 to 5 5 to 7 7 to 10 sensitive
3 months to 1 year years years 10 years
months year to 3 years
years
Item-wise details under each category may be furnished in the respective time-buckets.
1. Bonds & notes issued
2. Other borrowings
3. Interest payable on bonds/ notes/
borrowings
4. Contingent liabilities
5. Others (specify)
A. TOTAL
LIABILITIES (A)
29

B. ASSETS
Items/ Time buckets 1 to 28 29 Over 3 Over 6 Over Over Over Over Over Non- Total
days days to to 6 months 1 3 to 5 5 to 7 7 to 10 sensitive
3 months to 1 year years years 10 years
months year to 3 years
years
Item-wise details under each category may be furnished in the respective time-buckets.
1. Balances, if any with RBI (under " Parking
scheme")
2 Balances with other banks
3. Investments (if any)
4. Advances (performing)
5. Non-performing loans under various
enumerated in Annex III (net of provisions and
ECGC claims received)
6. Other Assets
7. Contingent items
8. Others (please specify)
B. Total Assets (B)
Items/ Time buckets 1 to 28 29 Over 3 Over 6 Over Over Over Over Over Non- Total
days days to to 6 months 1 3 to 5 5 to 7 7 to 10 sensitive
3 months to 1 year years years 10 years
months year to 3 years
years
Item-wise details under each category may be furnished in the respective time-buckets.
C. I R GAP (B – A)
Other Products (Interest Rate)
30

(i) FRAs
(ii) IR Swaps
(iii) Futures
(iv) Options
(v) Others (please specify)
D. Total Other Products (D)
E. NET GAP (C-D)
F. CUMULATIVE GAP
G. E as % of B
31

Annex III: Maturity Profile for Statement of Liquidity
A. Outflows
Heads of Account Time-bucket category
1. Capital funds
a) Equity capital, Reserves, Funds and} The 'Over 10 years’ time-bucket.
Surplus}
b) Preference capital – redeemable / non-perpetual As per the residual maturity of the shares.
2. Gifts, grants, donations and benefactions The 'Over 10 years’ time-bucket. However, if such gifts, grants,
etc., are tied to specific end-use, then these may be slotted in
the time- bucket as per purpose/end-use specified.
3. Notes, Bonds, and debentures (including
subordinated bonds, rupee as well as foreign currency bonds)
a) Plain vanilla bonds / debentures (rupee as well as foreign As per the residual maturity of the instruments, in the rupee or
currency) the respective foreign currency liquidity report.
The amount of foreign currency bonds/ borrowings which has
been deployed in foreign currency assets on a back-to-back
basis, should be reported in the currency-wise liquidity
statement for the relative currency.
b) Bonds / debentures with embedded call / put options As per the residual period for the earliest exercise date for the
embedded option.
However, the AIFIs which have sufficient historical database
evidencing the pattern of exercise of such embedded options in
the past, could undertake a time-series analysis of such data to
analyse the behaviour of the cash outflows and slot the cash
flows according to behavioural maturity. In the absence of
32

adequate historical database, the entire amount payable under
the embedded options should be slotted as per the residual
period to the earliest exercise date.
c) Zero-coupon / deep discount bonds Such bonds, if issued without any embedded options, should
be shown in the time bucket corresponding to their residual
maturity for the full amount of maturity / face value. In case of
such bonds with embedded options, the provisions at item 3(b)
above would apply.
d) Fixed rate notes As per the residual maturity
4. Deposits
a) Term deposits from public As per the residual maturity. Alternatively, the AIFIs which are
better equipped, could analyse the behaviour of their deposits in
terms of exercise of embedded options subject to lock-in period,
roll-in and roll-out and outflows of deposits, etc., and slot them
as per their behavioural maturity rather than the residual
maturity.
b) Inter Corporate Deposits These being institutional / wholesale deposits, should be slotted
as per their residual maturity.
c) Certificates of Deposit As per the residual maturity.
5. Borrowings
a) Term money borrowings As per the residual maturity
b) From RBI, Govt. & others -do-
6) Current liabilities and provisions
a) Sundry creditors As per the due date or likely timing of cash outflows. A
behavioural analysis could also be made to assess the trend of
outflows and the amounts slotted accordingly.
b) Expenses payable (other than interest) As per the likely timing of the cash outflow.
c) Advance income received, receipts from In the '10 year and above' time-bucket as these do not involve
borrowers pending adjustment any cash outflow.
d) Interest payable on bonds / deposits / Borrowings The cash outflows during the entire life of the bond / deposit are
to be captured and not only the amount of interest accrued till
33

the reporting date. The cash outflows should be slotted in
respective time buckets as per the residual period to the due
date of payment.
The amount of interest overdue (including the amount pre-
funded in the account with RBI for servicing of outstanding SLR
bonds pending claims from investors) should be shown in 1 - 14
days time-bucket.
In case of floating rate bonds/deposits, the amount of interest
outflow may be calculated at the floating rate applicable on the
reporting date. However, the AIFIs which are better equipped,
will have the choice of calculating the interest outflows
at forward-to-forward interest rate derived from the
benchmark underlying the floating rate liability.
e) Provisions for NPAs and the Standard assets The amount of provision may be netted out from the gross
amount of the loan portfolio and the net amount of loan assets
be shown as an item under inflows in stipulated time-buckets.
f) Provision for Investments portfolio The amount may be netted from the gross value of investments
portfolio and the net investments be shown as inflow in the
prescribed time-slots. In case provisions are not held security-
wise, the provision may be shown in ‘over 10 years’ bucket.
g) Other provisions To be bucketed as per the purpose/nature of the underlying
transaction.
B. Inflows
Heads of Account Time-bucket category
1. Cash In 1 to 14 days time-bucket.
2. Remittance in transit - do-
3. Balances with RBI - do-
34

4. Balances with banks (in India only)
a) Current account The stipulated minimum balance be shown in 1 to 3 years
bucket. The balance in excess of the minimum balance be
shown in 1 to 14 days time bucket.
b) Money at call and short notice In 1 to 14 days time bucket.
c) Deposit accounts/short term deposits As per residual maturity.
5. Investments (net of provisions if the provisions are held scrip-
wise)
a) Securities held in Trading Book An AIFI which maintains separate Trading Book consisting of
securities that comply with the stipulations of paragraph 31 of
the Directions and duly approved as such by the Board / ALCO,
are permitted to bucket such securities under the 1-14 days, 15-
28 days, and 29-90 days buckets on the basis of the
defeasance periods.
b) Securities outside the Trading book
i) Government securities As per residual maturity of the securities.
ii) Corporate bonds and debentures As per residual maturity of the instruments.
However, the bonds/debentures valued by applying NPA norms
due to non-servicing of interest, should be shown in time
buckets as prescribed below at items 7(a) and 7(b) respectively.
iii) Non-convertible, redeemable preference shares and units of As per residual maturity of the instruments.
closed-ended mutual funds.
iv) Equity shares; convertible preference shares; non- In ‘Over 10 year’ time-bucket. However, the equity holdings in
redeemable perpetual preference shares; shares of the assisted companies, acquired as part of the overall financing
35

subsidiaries/joint ventures and units in open ended mutual funds. package, should be slotted as per the specific disinvestment
plan formulated for such holdings. In case, a specific
disinvestment plan has not been evolved, the equity holdings
should be shown as an inflow in the ‘Over 10 year’ bucket.
v) Venture capital units In the ' Over 10 year' time bucket.
6. Advances (performing)
a) Bill of Exchange and promissory notes discounted and As per the residual usance of the underlying bills.
rediscounted
b) Term loans (rupee loans including the export Loans funded The cash inflows on account of the interest and principal of the
out of rupee resources but denominated in foreign currencies) loan may be slotted in respective time buckets as per the timing
of the cash flows as stipulated in the original/revised repayment
schedule.
The AIFI which finance its exporter-clients out of rupee
resources but denominate such loans in their books in
foreign currency to be extinguished out of the export proceeds,
should report such assets in the rupee liquidity statement since
such loans are funded out of rupee resources.
c) Corporate loans/short term loans As per the residual maturity.
However, the AIFI which have the adequate database on the
past pre-payment behaviour of such loans, may undertake time-
series analysis and slot such loans as per behavioural maturity.
7. Non-performing loans
(May be shown net of the provisions, interest suspense held and
the amount of claims received from ECGC.)
a) Sub-standard
36

i) All overdues and instalments of principal falling due during the In the 3 to 5 year time-bucket.
next three years
ii) Entire principal amount due beyond the next three year In the time-bucket arrived at after adding 3 years to the
respective due dates of various instalments of principal.
b) Doubtful and loss
i) All instalments of principal falling due during the next five years In the 5 to 7 year bucket.
as also all overdues
In the time-bucket arrived at after adding five years to the
ii) Entire principal amount due beyond the next five ears respective due dates of various instalments of principal.
8. Assets on lease Entire cash flows from the lease transaction, representing
principal as well as interest element, may be slotted in
respective time buckets as per the timing of the cash flow.
9. Fixed assets (excluding leased assets) In the 'Over 10 year' time-bucket.
10. Other assets
(a) Intangible assets and items not representing cash inflows. In the 'Over 10 year' time-bucket.
(b) Other items (such as other receivables, staff loans, etc.) In respective maturity buckets as per the residual period to the
timing of the cashflows. As regards the future income from
assets, the cash inflow over the entire life of the asset should
be captured and not only till the reporting date. However, for
loan assets, the future income should be reckoned only in
respect of standard assets at the level existing on the reporting
date and for debt securities, the interest income should be
reckoned as inflow only if the interest is serviced regularly.
37

C. Contingent cash flows
a) Letters of credit/guarantees (outflow through Based on the past trend analysis of the devolvements vis-a-vis the
Devolvement) outstanding amount of LCs / guarantees (net of margins held), the
likely devolvements should be estimated and this amount could be
distributed in various time buckets on judgmental basis. The assets
created out of devolvements may be shown under respective
maturity buckets on the basis of probable recovery dates.
The LCs established against sanctioned assistance would be in the
nature of undisbursed commitments and should be slotted as an
outflow in the time-buckets arrived at keeping in view the validity
period of LC / shipment schedule under LC / due date of bills
stipulated under the LC
b) Loan commitments pending disbursal / Only that amount of undisbursed commitments should be captured
undisbursed commitments (outflow) in the liquidity report in respect of which the notice for draw-
down has been received from the borrower. In case, however, the
terms of sanction do not stipulate any notice to be given by the
borrower, the entire amount of undisbursed commitment should be
slotted in the respective time buckets as per the sanctioned
disbursement schedule.
c) Repayments against the undisbursed Such future inflows should be slotted in the relative time buckets as
commitments per the stipulated repayment schedule under the terms of sanction,
only in respect of the amount reckoned at item (b) above.
d) Lines of credit committed to/by other In the 1 to 14 day time-bucket. However, if the draw-down under the
Institutions (outflow / inflow) line of credit is subject to a specified notice period of more than 14
days, such notice period should also be reckoned in deciding the
appropriate time bucket.
e) Underwriting commitments (outflow) Based on the analysis of the past trend of devolvement of
underwriting commitments, the amount of such commitments may
be slotted in the relative time bucket as per the time schedule of
IPO/finalisation of allotment.
f) Forward exchange contracts (inflow/outflow)
38

g) rupee-foreign currency swaps (forex swaps) (inflow/ As per the residual maturity of the contract
outflow)
h) bills rediscounted (inflow) As per the residual maturity of the underlying bills
i) Repos/reverse repos (inflow/ outflow) As per the residual maturity of the underlying ready forward deal
j) Interest rate swaps (inflows / outflows) As per the residual period till each of the contractual cash flows
k) Forward rate agreements (inflows/outflows) under the IRS / FRAs / currency swaps. The cash flows relating to
i) Currency Swaps (financial swaps) currency swaps may be shown in the liquidity statement of the
respective currencies.
Note:
a. Any event-specific cash flows (e.g. outflow due to wage settlement arrears, capital expenses, income tax refunds, etc.)
should be shown in a time bucket corresponding to timing of such cash flows.
b. All overdue liabilities be shown in the 1 to 14 days time bucket.
c. Overdue receivables on account of interest and instalments of standard loans should be slotted as below:
(i) Interest overdue for less than Day 1-14 and 15-28
one month. days time bucket
based on
behavioural
estimates.
(ii) Interest and instalment due In 29 days to 3
(before classification as NPAs) months time bucket.
.
39

D. Financing of liquidity gaps:
The negative gap (i.e., where outflows exceed inflows) in the 1 to 14 days and 15 to 28 days time-bucket should not exceed
the prudential limit of 10 per cent and 15 per cent respectively of the cash outflows of each time-bucket. In case these limits
are exceeded, the measures proposed for bringing the gaps within the limit, should be shown by a footnote in the relative
statement.
40

Annex IV: Interest Rate Sensitivity Profile
Heads of accounts Time bucket for rate sensitivity
A. LIABILITIES
1. Capital, Reserves & Surplus Non-sensitive
2. Gifts, grants & benefactions Non-sensitive
3. Notes, bonds & debentures:
a) Floating rate Sensitive; re-price on the roll- over / re-pricing date should be
slotted in respective time buckets as per the re-pricing dates.
b) Fixed rate (plain vanilla) Sensitive; re-price on maturity. To be placed in respective time
including zero coupons buckets as per the residual maturity of such instruments.
c) Instruments with embedded options Sensitive; could re-price on the exercise date of the option,
particularly in rising interest rate scenario. To be placed in
respective time buckets as per the residual period till the
immediately ensuing exercise date.
However, the AIFI which has sufficient historical data base
evidencing the pattern of exercise of such embedded options
in the past, could undertake a time-series analysis of such
data to analyse the behaviour of the cash flows and slot them
accordingly in the relative time-buckets. In the absence of
adequate historical database, the entire amount payable
under the embedded options should be slotted as per the
residual period to the earliest exercise date.
4. Deposits Sensitive; could re-price on maturity or in case of premature
withdrawal being permitted, after the lock-in period, if any,
a) Term deposits from public stipulated for such withdrawal. To be slotted in respective time
I) Fixed rate buckets as per residual maturity or as per residual lock-in
period, as the case may be. The prematurely withdrawable
deposits with no lock-in period or past such lock-in period,
should be slotted in the earliest /shortest time bucket.
41

ii) Floating rate Sensitive; re-price on the contractual roll-over date. To be
slotted in the respective time-buckets as per the residual
period till the earliest ensuing re-pricing date.
b) Certificates of deposits and ICDs Sensitive; re-price on maturity. To be slotted as per the
residual maturity in the respective time buckets.
5. Borrowings:
a) Term-money borrowing Sensitive; re-prices on maturity. To be placed as per residual
maturity in the relative time bucket.
b) Borrowings from RBI, Government. & others Sensitive; re-price on maturity. To be placed as per residual
i) Fixed rate maturity in the relative time bucket.
ii) Floating rate Sensitive; re-price on the roll-over / re-pricing date. To be
placed as per residual period to the re-pricing date in the
relative time bucket.
In case of borrowings from RBI linked to the Policy Rate, the
entire amount of borrowing should be slotted in the 1 to 28
days time-bucket.
a) Sundry creditors Sensitive on payment. To be slotted as per the residual period
to the likely date of payment.
b) Expenses payable Expenses payable
c) Swap adjustment a/c. Non-sensitive.
d) Advance income received / receipts from borrowers pending Sensitive on payment. The cash outflows during the entire life
adjustment of the bond/deposit are to be captured and not only the
amount of interest accrued till the reporting date. The cash
outflows should be slotted in respective time buckets as per
the residual period to the due date of payment.
e) Provisions The amount of interest overdue (including the amount pre-
funded in the account with RBI for servicing of outstanding old
SLR bonds pending claims from investors) should be shown
in 1 - 28 days time-bucket.
f) Interest payable on bonds / deposits / borrowings In case of floating rate bonds/deposits, the amount of interest
42

outflow may be calculated at the floating rate applicable as on
the reporting date. However, the AIFI which is better
equipped, will have the choice of calculating the interest
amount at forward-to-forward interest rate derived from the
benchmark underlying the floating rate liability.
7 (a). Repos / bills rediscounted / Forex-rupee swaps (sell/ buy) Sensitive; re-price on maturity. To be placed as per the
residual maturity of the underlying ready forward deal / bills /
forex contract, in the respective time-buckets.
7(b) Interest rate swaps / Sensitive on payment. The contractual cash outflows under
Forward Rate Agreements / Currency Swaps (financial swaps) the IRS / FRAs / currency swaps should be placed as per the
residual period till each of the contractual cash flows. The
cash flows relating to currency swaps may be shown in the
IRS statement of the respective currencies.
B. ASSETS:
1. Cash Non-sensitive.
2. Balance with RBI Non-sensitive (since only current account is maintained with
RBI).
3. Balances with other banks in
India
a) In current account Non-sensitive.
b) In deposit accounts, Money at call and short notice and other Sensitive; re-prices on maturity. To be placed as per residual
placements. maturity in respective time-buckets.
4. Investments (net of provisions if the provisions are held scrip-
wise)
a) Securities in the Trading Book Sensitive on maturity / repricing or roll-over date. The FIs
which maintain separate 'Trading Book' consisting of
securities which comply with the stipulations of paragraph 31
of the Directions and duly approved as such by the Board /
ALCO, should be slotted as per their residual maturity (or
43

repricing maturity in case of floating rate instruments).
b) Securities outside the trading book
a) Fixed income securities Sensitive on maturity. In addition, the interest / dividend cash
flows during the life of the security would also be sensitive on
(e.g., govt. securities; zero coupon bonds; bonds; debentures; receipt.
cumulative / non-cumulative redeemable preference shares, etc.)
The principal amount of securities / face value of ZCBs to be
slotted as per residual maturity. The cash flows on account of
interest to be slotted in the buckets as per the timing of the
cash flow. As regards the dividends on preference shares,
particularly on cumulative ones, the bucket may be decided
on judgemental basis.
However, the bonds / debentures valued by applying NPA
norms due to non-servicing of interest, should be shown, net
of provisions made, in the time buckets prescribed at items
B.7(a) and B.7(b) in Annex III.
b) Floating rate securities Sensitive at the next re-pricing date. To be slotted as per
residual time to the re-pricing date in the respective buckets.
c) Equity shares, convertible, preference shares, shares of Non-sensitive.
subsidiaries / joint ventures, venture capital units.
However, the equity holdings in the assisted companies,
acquired as part of the overall financing package, should be
slotted as per the specific disinvestment plan formulated for
such holdings. In case, a specific disinvestment plan has not
been evolved, the equity holdings should be shown as an
inflow in the Non-sensitive bucket.
5. Advances (performing)
a) Bills of exchange, promissory notes discounted & rediscounted Sensitive on maturity. To be slotted as per the residual usance
of the underlying bills.
b) Term loans / corporate loans / Short Term Loans
44

i) Fixed Rate Sensitive on maturity. The interest cash flows on the loans will
be sensitive on receipt and should be slotted as per the timing
of the cash flow.
ii) Floating Rate Sensitive only on the reset date when the risk premium is
changed by the AIFI. The amount of term loans should be
slotted in time buckets which correspond to the reset date
when the rate might be changed in response to the changes
in their PLR or market interest rates. The interest amount
would be sensitive on receipt and should be slotted as per the
timing of the interest payment. The amount of interest should
be calculated at the rate applicable on the reporting date.
6. Non-performing loans:
(net of provisions, interest suspense and claims received from
ECGC)
To be slotted as indicated at items
a) Sub-standard
B.7 (a) & B.7(b) of Annex III.
b) Doubtful and loss
7. Assets on lease The cash flows on lease assets are sensitive on receipt. The
entire cash flows on leased assets, representing principal as
well as interest element, be slotted in respective time-buckets
as per the timing of the cash flows.
8. Fixed assets (excluding assets Non-sensitive
on lease)
9. Other assets
a) Intangible assets and items not representing cash flows. Non-sensitive.
b) Other items (e.g., receivables) Sensitive on receipt. To be slotted in respective maturity
buckets as per the residual period to the timing of the
45

cashflows. As regards the future income from assets (such
as deposits, loans & investments), the cash inflow over the
entire life of the asset should be captured and not only till the
reporting date. However, for loan assets, the future income
should be reckoned only in respect of standard assets and for
debt securities, the interest income should be reckoned as
inflow only if the interest is serviced regularly.
10. Reverse Repos / Forex-rupee swaps (buy/sell)/Bills Sensitive on maturity. To be slotted as per residual maturity of
rediscounted (Derivative Usance Promissory Notes) the underlying transaction.
11. Repayments against the undisbursed commitments Sensitive on receipt of payment. Such future inflows should
be slotted in the relative time buckets as per the stipulated
repayment schedule under the terms of sanction.
12. Other (interest rate) products
a) Interest rate swaps / Forward Rate Agreements / Currency Sensitive on payment. The contractual cash inflows under the
swaps (financial swaps) IRS / FRAs / currency swaps should be placed as per the
residual period till each of the contractual cash flows. The
cash flows relating to currency swaps may be shown in the
IRS statement of the respective currencies.
b) Other derivatives To be classified suitably as and when introduced.
46