भारतीय �रज़वर् बैंक
RESERVE BANK OF INDIA
RBI/DOR/2025-26/211
DOR.CAP.REC.130/21-01-002/2025-26 November 28, 2025
Reserve Bank of India (Payments Banks – Prudential Norms on Capital
Adequacy) Directions, 2025 (updated as on May 08, 2026)
Table of Contents
Chapter I Preliminary ............................................................................................................ 3
A Short title and commencement ................................................................................ 3
B Applicability ............................................................................................................... 3
C Definitions .................................................................................................................. 3
Chapter II Regulatory Capital ............................................................................................... 8
A General ....................................................................................................................... 8
B Components of Regulatory Capital ......................................................................... 8
C Limits and minima ..................................................................................................... 8
D Common Equity Tier 1 (CET 1) Capital .................................................................... 9
E Additional Tier 1 (AT 1) Capital .............................................................................. 13
F Tier 2 capital ............................................................................................................ 31
G Regulatory adjustments / deductions ................................................................... 48
Chapter III Calculation of risk weighted assets (RWAs) ................................................. 66
A Capital charge for Credit Risk ................................................................................ 66
B External credit assessments .................................................................................. 95
C Credit risk mitigation .............................................................................................. 95
D Treatment for illiquid positions ............................................................................ 117
Chapter IV Market Discipline ........................................................................................... 125
Chapter V Leverage ratio framework .............................................................................. 126
Chapter VI General provisions ........................................................................................ 127
Chapter VII Repeal and Other Provisions ....................................................................... 128

Annex I Reporting format for details of investments by FIIs and NRIs in PNCPS
qualifying as AT 1 capital ................................................................................................. 130
Annex II Format for reporting of capital issuances ....................................................... 131
2

In exercise of the powers conferred under Section 35A of the Banking Regulation Act
(BR Act), 1949, the Reserve Bank, being satisfied that it is necessary and expedient
in the public interest and in the interest of banking policy so to do, hereby, issues the
Directions hereinafter specified.
Chapter I
Preliminary
A Short title and commencement
1. These Directions shall be called the Reserve Bank of India (Payments Banks –
Prudential Norms on Capital Adequacy) Directions, 2025.
2. These Directions shall come into effect immediately upon issuance.
B Applicability
3. These Directions shall be applicable to Payments Banks (PBs) (hereinafter
collectively referred to as ‘banks’ or ‘PBs’ and individually as a ‘bank’ or ‘PB’).
Note: Mere mention of an activity, transaction, or item in these Directions does
not imply that it is permitted. A bank shall refer to all applicable extant statutory
and regulatory Directions and requirements while determining the permissibility
or otherwise of an activity, transaction or item.
C Definitions
4. In these Directions, unless the context states otherwise, the terms herein shall
bear the meanings assigned to them below:
(1) ‘Banking book’ shall mean all items which are not included under trading book
as per these Directions;
(2) ‘Capital Market Exposures’ shall include a bank’s direct investment in equity
shares, convertible bonds, convertible debentures and units of equity-oriented
mutual funds the corpus of which is not exclusively invested in corporate debt;
(3) ‘Counterparty Credit Risk (CCR)’ is the risk that the counterparty to a transaction
could default before the final settlement of the transaction's cash flows. An
economic loss would occur if the transactions or portfolio of transactions with the
counterparty has a positive economic value at the time of default. Unlike a bank’s
exposure to credit risk through a loan, where the exposure to credit risk is
3

unilateral and only the lending bank faces the risk of loss, CCR creates a bilateral
risk of loss, i.e., the market value of the transaction can be positive or negative
to either counterparty to the transaction. The market value is uncertain and can
vary over time with the movement of underlying market factor;
(4) ‘Clearing member’ is a member of, or a direct participant in, a CCP that is entitled
to enter into a transaction with the CCP, regardless of whether it enters into
trades with a CCP for its own hedging, investment, or speculative purposes or
whether it also enters into trades as a financial intermediary between the CCP
and other market participants. For this Master Direction, where a CCP has a link
to a second CCP, that second CCP is to be treated as a clearing member of the
first CCP. Whether the second CCP’s collateral contribution to the first CCP is
treated as initial margin or a default fund contribution shall depend upon the legal
arrangement between the CCPs. In such cases, if any, the Reserve Bank shall
be consulted for determining the treatment of this initial margin and default fund
contributions;
(5) ‘Client’ in the context of transactions with a CCP is a party to a transaction with
a CCP through either a clearing member acting as a financial intermediary, or a
clearing member guaranteeing the performance of the client to the CCP;
(6) ‘Credit risk’ is defined as the potential that a bank's counterparty may fail to meet
its obligations in accordance with agreed terms. It is also the possibility of losses
associated with diminution in the credit quality of counterparties;
(7) ‘Cross product netting’ refers to the inclusion of transactions of different product
categories within the same netting set;
(8) ‘Current exposure’ is the larger of zero, or the market value of a transaction or
portfolio of transactions within a netting set with a counterparty that would be lost
upon the default of the counterparty, assuming no recovery on the value of those
transactions in bankruptcy. Current exposure is often also called Replacement
Cost;
(9) ‘Default funds’, also known as clearing deposits or guarantee fund contributions
(or any other names), are clearing members’ funded or unfunded contributions
towards, or underwriting of, a CCP’s mutualised loss sharing arrangements. The
description given by a CCP to its mutualised loss sharing arrangements is not
4

determinative of their status as a default fund; rather, the substance of such
arrangements shall govern their status;
(10) ‘Deferred Tax Assets’ and ‘Deferred Tax Liabilities’ shall have the same meaning
as assigned under the applicable Accounting Standards;
(11) ‘Derivative’ shall have the same meaning as assigned to it in section 45U(a) of
the RBI Act, 1934;
(12) ‘Going-concern Capital’, from a regulatory perspective, is the capital which shall
absorb losses without triggering bankruptcy of the bank;
(13) ‘Gone-concern Capital’, from a regulatory perspective, is the capital which shall
absorb losses only in case of liquidation of the bank;
(14) ‘Initial margin’ means a clearing member’s or client’s funded collateral posted to
the CCP to mitigate the potential future exposure of the CCP to the clearing
member arising from the possible future change in the value of their transactions.
For the purposes of these guidelines, initial margin does not include contributions
to a CCP for mutualised loss sharing arrangements (i.e., in case a CCP uses
initial margin to mutualise losses among the clearing members, it shall be treated
as a default fund exposure);
(15) ‘Legal risk’ includes, but is not limited exposure to fines, penalties, or punitive
damages resulting from supervisory actions, as well as private settlements;
(16) ‘Leverage Ratio’ is the net worth (the numerator) divided by the outside liabilities
(the denominator), with this ratio expressed as a percentage;
Net worth (paid−up capital and reserves)
Leverage Ratio =
(17) ‘Market Risk’ means the risk of losses Oinu otsnid-bea lliaanbcileit isehseet and off-balance sheet
positions arising from movements in market prices;
(18) ‘Member Lending Institutions (MLIs)’ are as defined in respective schemes of the
National Credit Guarantee Trustee Company Ltd (NCGTC);
(19) ‘Netting Set’ is a group of transactions with a single counterparty that are subject
to a legally enforceable bilateral netting arrangement and for which netting is
recognised for regulatory capital purposes. Each transaction that is not subject
to a legally enforceable bilateral netting arrangement that is recognised for
5

regulatory capital purposes shall be interpreted as its own netting set for the
purpose of these rules;
(20) ‘Offsetting transaction’ means the transaction leg between the clearing member
and the CCP when the clearing member acts on behalf of a client (e.g., when a
clearing member clears or novates a client’s trade);
(21) ‘Operational Risk’ means the risk of loss resulting from inadequate or failed
internal processes, people, and systems or from external events. This includes
legal risk but excludes strategic and reputational risk;
(22) ‘Other approved securities’ shall have the same meaning as defined under
Reserve Bank of India (Small Finance Banks – Cash Reserve Ratio and
Statutory Liquidity Ratio) Directions, 2025 as amended from time to time;
(23) ‘Qualifying central counterparty (QCCP)’ is an entity that is licensed to operate
as a CCP (including a license granted by way of confirming an exemption) and
is permitted by the appropriate regulator / overseer to operate as such with
respect to the products offered. This is subject to the provision that the CCP is
based and prudentially supervised in a jurisdiction where the relevant regulator /
overseer has established, and publicly indicated that it applies to the CCP on an
ongoing basis, domestic rules and regulations that are consistent with the CPSS-
IOSCO Principles for Financial Market Infrastructures;
(24) ‘Securities Financing Transaction (SFTs)’ are transactions such as repurchase
agreements, reverse repurchase agreements, security lending and borrowing,
collateralised borrowing and lending (CBLO), and margin lending transactions,
where the value of the transactions depends on market valuations and the
transactions are often subject to margin agreements;
(25) ‘Subsidiary’ shall mean an enterprise that is controlled by another enterprise
(known as the parent). The definition of ‘control’ shall be as given in the
applicable Accounting Standards;
(26) ‘Trade exposures’ include the current exposure and potential future exposure of
a clearing member or a client to a CCP arising from Over-the-counter (OTC)
derivatives, exchange traded derivatives transactions or SFTs, as well as initial
6

margin. The current exposure of a clearing member includes the variation margin
due to the clearing member but not yet received;
(27) ‘Trading Book’ shall include all instruments that are classified as ‘Held for
Trading’ as per Reserve Bank of India (Payment Banks – Classification,
Valuation and Operation of Investment Portfolio) Directions, 2025;
(28) ‘Variation margin’ means a clearing member’s or client’s funded collateral posted
on a daily or intraday basis to a CCP based upon price movements of their
transactions.
5. All other expressions, unless defined, herein shall have the same meaning as
have been assigned to them under the applicable Acts, rules / regulations made
thereunder, or any statutory modification or re-enactment thereto or as used in
commercial parlance, as the case may be.
7

Chapter II
Regulatory Capital
A General
6. A bank shall compute its capital ratios in the following manner:
CET 1 capital
Common Equity Tier 1
=
(CET 1) capital ratio
Total Risk Weighted Assets (RWAs)
Eligible Tier 1 capital
Tier 1 capital ratio =
RWAs
Eligible Total Capital
Total Capital (CRAR) =
RWAs
B Components of Regulatory Capital
7. Total regulatory capital shall consist of the sum of the following categories:
(1) Tier 1 Capital (going-concern capital)
(i) Common Equity Tier 1 (CET 1) Capital;
(ii) Additional Tier 1 (AT 1) Capital.
(2) Tier 2 Capital (gone-concern capital)
C Limits and minima
8. The limits and minimum capital requirement are as under:
(1) A bank shall maintain a Minimum Total Capital (MTC) of 15 per cent of the Total
Risk Weighted Assets (RWAs) on an ongoing basis, i.e., Capital to Risk
Weighted Asset Ratio (CRAR) shall be at least 15 per cent on an ongoing basis.
This shall be further divided into different components as described under
following paragraphs;
(2) CET 1 Capital shall be at least 6 per cent of the RWAs on an ongoing basis;
(3) Tier 1 Capital shall be at least 7.5 per cent of the RWAs on an ongoing basis.
Thus, within the minimum Tier 1 capital, maximum AT 1 capital that can be
admitted shall be up to 1.5 per cent of the RWAs;
8

(4) As total capital (Tier 1 capital + Tier 2 capital) shall be at least 15 per cent of the
RWAs on an ongoing basis, within the minimum CRAR of 15 per cent, the
maximum Tier 2 capital that can be admitted shall be up to 7.5 per cent of the
RWAs. Further, Tier 2 capital shall be limited to a maximum of 100 per cent of
Tier 1 capital.
Explanation - If a bank has complied with the minimum CET 1 capital
requirement, prescribed in these Directions, the excess CET 1 capital can be
admitted for compliance with the minimum Tier 1 of 7.5 per cent of the RWAs.
Further, if a bank has complied with the minimum CET 1 and Tier 1 capital ratios,
prescribed in these Directions, the excess CET 1 and / or AT 1 capital can be
admitted for compliance with the minimum CRAR of 15 per cent of the RWAs.
D Common Equity Tier 1 (CET 1) Capital
9. CET 1 capital of a bank shall comprise the following:
(i) Common shares (paid-up equity capital) issued by a bank that meet the
criteria for classification as common shares for regulatory purposes as
given in paragraph 10;
(ii) Stock surplus (share premium) resulting from the issue of common shares;
(iii) Statutory reserves;
(iv) Capital reserves representing surplus arising out of sale proceeds of
assets;
(v) AFS Reserve
Note-
(1) AFS – Reserve shall be as per the Reserve Bank of India (Payments
Banks – Classification, Valuation and Operation of Investment Portfolio)
Directions, 2025.
(2) Any negative balance in the AFS - Reserve shall be deducted from CET
1 capital;
(vi) Revaluation reserves arising out of change in the carrying amount of a
bank’s property consequent upon its revaluation may be reckoned as CET
9

1 capital at a discount of 55 per cent, subject to meeting the following
conditions:
(a) the bank is able to sell the property readily at its own will and there is
no legal impediment in selling the property;
(b) the revaluation reserves are shown under “Schedule 2: Reserves and
Surplus” in the Balance Sheet of the bank;
(c) revaluations are realistic, in accordance with applicable Accounting
Standards;
(d) valuations are obtained, from two independent valuers, at least once
in every three years; where the value of the property has been
substantially impaired by any event, these are to be immediately
revalued and appropriately factored into capital adequacy
computations;
(e) the external auditors of the bank have not expressed a qualified
opinion on the revaluation of the property; and
(f) the instructions on valuation of properties and other specific
requirements as mentioned in the Reserve Bank of India
(Commercials Banks - Credit Risk Management) Directions, 2025 are
strictly adhered to.
Revaluation reserves which do not qualify as CET 1 capital shall also not
qualify as Tier 2 capital. A bank may choose to reckon revaluation reserves
either in CET 1 capital or Tier 2 capital at its discretion, subject to fulfilment
of all the conditions specified above;
(vii) A bank may, at its discretion, reckon Foreign Currency Translation Reserve
(FCTR) arising due to translation of financial statements of its foreign
operations in terms of applicable accounting standard as CET 1 capital at
a discount of 25 per cent subject to meeting the following conditions:
(a) The FCTR are shown under “Schedule 2: Reserves and Surplus” in
the Balance Sheet of the bank; and
(b) The external auditors of the bank have not expressed a qualified
opinion on the FCTR;
10

(viii) Other disclosed free reserves, if any;
(ix) Balance in Profit and Loss Account at the end of the previous financial year;
(x) 4A bank may reckon the profits in current financial year for CRAR
calculation on a quarterly basis subject to the following conditions:
(a) The financial statements shall be audited or subjected to limited
review on a quarterly basis; and
(b) The amount which can be reckoned shall be arrived at by using the
following formula:
EP = NP - 0.25 *D*t
t t
Where:
EP = Eligible profit up to quarter ‘t’ of the current financial year, t varies
t
from 1 to 4
NP = Net profit up to quarter ‘t’
t
D = average dividend paid during the last three financial years
The cumulative net loss up to the quarter end shall be fully deducted while
calculating CET1 capital for the relevant quarter; and
(xi) Less: Regulatory adjustments / deductions applied in the calculation of
CET 1 capital [i.e., to be deducted from the sum of items (i) to (x)].
Criteria for classification as Common Shares (paid-up equity capital) for
Regulatory Capital purposes
10. Common shares, which are included in CET 1 capital, shall meet all the following
criteria:
(i) All common shares shall ideally be the voting shares. However, in rare
cases, where a bank needs to issue non-voting common shares as part of
CET 1 capital, they shall be identical to voting common shares of the issuing
bank in all respects except the absence of voting rights. Limit on voting
rights shall be applicable based on the provisions of respective statutes
governing a bank;
4
Substituted with effect from May 08, 2026 vide Reserve Bank of India (Payments Banks - Prudential Norms on
Capital Adequacy) Second Amendment Directions, 2026 dated May 08, 2026.
11

(ii) Represents the most subordinated claim in liquidation of the bank;
(iii) Entitled to a claim on the residual assets which is proportional to its share
of paid-up capital, after all senior claims have been repaid in liquidation (i.e.,
has an unlimited and variable claim, not a fixed or capped claim);
(iv) Principal is perpetual and never repaid outside of liquidation (except
discretionary repurchases / buy backs or other means of effectively
reducing capital in a discretionary manner that is allowable under relevant
law as well as guidelines, if any, issued by the Reserve Bank in the matter);
(v) The bank does nothing to create an expectation at issuance that the
instrument shall be bought back, redeemed, or cancelled nor do the
statutory or contractual terms provide any feature which might give rise to
such an expectation;
(vi) Distributions are paid out of distributable items. The level of distributions is
not in any way tied or linked to the amount paid up at issuance and is not
subject to a contractual cap (except to the extent that a bank is unable to
pay distributions that exceed the level of distributable items). As regards
‘distributable items’, dividend on common shares shall be paid out of current
year’s profit only;
(vii) There are no circumstances under which the distributions are obligatory.
Non-payment therefore shall not be an event of default;
(viii) Distributions are paid only after all legal and contractual obligations have
been met and payments on more senior capital instruments have been
made. This means that there are no preferential distributions, including in
respect of other elements classified as the highest quality issued capital;
(ix) It is the paid-up capital that takes the first and proportionately greatest share
of any losses as they occur. Within the highest quality capital, each
instrument absorbs losses on a going concern basis proportionately and
pari passu with all the others. In cases where capital instruments have a
permanent write-down feature, this criterion is still deemed to be met by
common shares;
12

(x) The paid-up amount is classified as equity capital (i.e., not recognised as a
liability) for determining balance sheet insolvency;
(xi) The paid-up amount is classified as equity under the relevant Accounting
Standards;
(xii) It is directly issued and paid up and the bank cannot directly or indirectly
have funded the purchase of the instrument. A bank shall not grant
advances against its own shares as this would be construed as indirect
funding of its own capital. A bank shall also not extend loans against its own
shares;
(xiii) The paid-up amount is neither secured nor covered by a guarantee of the
issuer or related entity nor subject to any other arrangement that legally or
economically enhances the seniority of the claim.
Explanation - A related entity can include a parent company, a sister
company, a subsidiary, or any other affiliate. A holding company is a related
entity irrespective of whether it forms part of the consolidated banking
group;
(xiv) Paid-up capital is only issued with the approval of the owners of the issuing
bank, either given directly by the owners or, if permitted by applicable law,
given by the Board of Directors or by other persons duly authorised by the
owners; and
(xv) Paid-up capital is clearly and separately disclosed in the bank’s Balance
Sheet.
E Additional Tier 1 (AT 1) Capital
11. AT 1 capital shall comprise the following:
(i) Basel III Perpetual Non-Cumulative Preference Shares (PNCPS), which
comply with the regulatory requirements as specified in paragraph 12
below;
(ii) Stock surplus (share premium) resulting from the issue of instruments
included in AT 1 capital;
13

(iii) Basel III Debt Capital Instruments eligible for inclusion in AT 1 capital, which
comply with the regulatory requirements as specified in paragraph 13
below;
(iv) Any other type of instrument generally notified by the Reserve Bank from
time to time for inclusion in AT 1 capital; and
(v) Less: regulatory adjustments / deductions applied in the calculation of AT 1
capital [i.e., to be deducted from the sum of items (i) to (iv) above].
E.1 Criteria for inclusion of Basel III Perpetual Non-Cumulative Preference
Shares (PNCPS) in AT 1 Capital
12. The PNCPS shall be issued, subject to extant legal provisions, only in Indian
rupees and shall meet the following terms and conditions to qualify for inclusion
in AT 1 Capital for capital adequacy purposes:
(1) Paid up status
The instruments should be issued by the bank (i.e., not by any Special Purpose
Vehicle (SPV) etc. set up by the bank for this purpose) and fully paid up.
(2) Amount
The amount of PNCPS to be raised shall be decided by the Board of Directors of
a bank.
(3) Limits
While complying with minimum Tier 1 of 7.5 per cent of RWAs, a bank shall not
admit, PNCPS together with Perpetual Debt Instrument (PDI) in AT 1 Capital,
more than 1.5 per cent of RWAs. However, once this minimum total Tier 1 capital
has been complied with, any additional PNCPS and PDI issued by the bank can
be included in total Tier 1 capital reported. While complying with MTC of 15 per
cent of RWAs, any excess PNCPS and PDI can be reckoned to comply with Tier
2 capital if the latter is less than 7.5 per cent of RWAs.
(4) Maturity Period
The PNCPS shall be perpetual, i.e., there is no maturity date and there are no
step-ups or other incentives to redeem.
(5) Rate of Dividend
14

The rate of dividend payable to the investors shall be either a fixed rate or a
floating rate referenced to a market determined rupee interest benchmark rate.
(6) Optionality
PNCPS shall not be issued with a 'put option'. However, a bank may issue the
instruments with a ‘call option’ at a particular date subject to following conditions:
(i) The call option on the instrument is permissible after the instrument has run
for at least five years;
(ii) To exercise a call option a bank shall receive prior approval of the Reserve
Bank (Department of Regulation);
(iii) A bank shall not do anything which creates an expectation that the call will
be exercised. For example, to preclude such expectation of the instrument
being called, the dividend / coupon reset date need not be co-terminus with
the call date. A bank may, at its discretion, consider having an appropriate
gap between dividend / coupon reset date and call date; and
Explanation - If a bank were to call a capital instrument and replace it with
an instrument that is more costly (e.g., has a higher credit spread) this may
create an expectation that the bank will exercise calls on its other capital
instruments. Therefore, a bank may not be permitted to call an instrument
if the bank intends to replace it with an instrument issued at a higher credit
spread. This is applicable in cases of all AT 1 and Tier 2 instruments;
(iv) A bank shall not exercise a call unless:
(a) It replaces the called instrument with capital of the same or better
quality and the replacement of this capital is done at conditions which
are sustainable for the income capacity of the bank. Replacement
issues can be concurrent with but not after the instrument is called;
OR
(b) The bank demonstrates that its capital position is well above the
minimum capital requirements after the call option is exercised.
Explanation - Here, minimum refers to CET 1 capital of 6 per cent, Tier 1
capital of 7.5 per cent and total capital of 15 per cent;
15

(v) The use of tax event and regulatory event calls may be permitted. However,
exercise of the calls on account of these events is subject to the
requirements set out in paragraph 12(6)(ii) to 12(6)(iv). The Reserve Bank
may permit the bank to exercise the call only if it is convinced that the bank
was not in a position to anticipate these events at the time of issuance of
PNCPS.
Explanation - To illustrate, if there is a change in tax treatment which makes
the capital instrument with tax deductible coupons into an instrument with
non-tax-deductible coupons, then the bank would have the option (not
obligation) to repurchase the instrument. In such a situation, a bank may be
allowed to replace the capital instrument with another capital instrument
that perhaps does have tax deductible coupons. Similarly, if there is a
downgrade of the instrument in regulatory classification (e.g., if it is decided
by the Reserve Bank to exclude an instrument from regulatory capital) the
bank may have the option to call the instrument and replace it with an
instrument with a better regulatory classification, or a lower coupon with the
same regulatory classification with prior approval of the Reserve Bank.
However, a bank shall not create an expectation / signal an early
redemption / maturity of the regulatory capital instrument.
(7) Repurchase / Buy-back / Redemption
Principal of the instruments may be repaid (e.g., through repurchase or
redemption) only with prior approval of the Reserve Bank and a bank shall not
assume or create market expectations that supervisory approval shall be given
(this repurchase / buy-back / redemption of the principal is in a situation other
than in the event of exercise of call option by the bank. One of the major
differences is that in the case of the former, the option to offer the instrument for
repayment on announcement of the decision to repurchase / buy-back / redeem
the instrument, will lie with the investors whereas, in case of the latter, it lies with
the bank).
16

(8) A bank may Repurchase / Buy-back / Redeem the instruments only if:
(i) It replaces such instrument with capital of the same or better quality and the
replacement of this capital is done at conditions which are sustainable for
the income capacity of the bank; or
(ii) The bank demonstrates that its capital position is well above the minimum
capital requirements after the repurchase / buy-back / redemption.
(9) Dividend Discretion
(i) The bank shall have full discretion at all times to cancel distributions /
payments;
Note - Due to full discretion at all times to cancel distributions / payments
‘dividend pushers’ are prohibited. An instrument with a dividend pusher
obliges the issuing bank to make a dividend / coupon payment on the
instrument if it has made a payment on another (typically more junior)
capital instrument or share. This obligation is inconsistent with the
requirement for full discretion at all times. Furthermore, the term ‘cancel
distributions / payments’ means extinguish these payments. It does not
permit features that require the bank to make distributions / payments in
kind;
(ii) Cancellation of discretionary payments shall not be an event of default;
(iii) A bank shall have full access to cancelled payments to meet obligations as
they fall due;
(iv) Cancellation of distributions / payments shall not impose restrictions on the
bank except in relation to distributions to common stakeholders;
(v) Dividends shall be paid out of distributable items only. As regards
‘distributable items’, it is clarified that the dividend on PNCPS shall be paid
out of current year’s profit only.
Note - As provided in Reserve Bank of India (Payment Banks –
Classification, Valuation and Operation of Investment Portfolio) Directions,
2025, the unrealised gains transferred to AFS-Reserve shall not be
available for any distribution such as coupon on AT 1 capital instruments.
Further, the Directions ibid provide that a bank shall not pay dividends out
17

of net unrealised gains recognised in the Profit and Loss Account arising
on fair valuation of Level 3 financial instruments on its Balance Sheet;
(vi) The dividend shall not be cumulative, i.e., dividend missed in a year shall
not be paid in future years, even if adequate profit is available and the level
of CRAR conforms to the regulatory minimum. When dividend is paid at a
rate lesser than the prescribed rate, the unpaid amount shall not be paid in
future years, even if adequate profit is available and the level of CRAR
conforms to the regulatory minimum;
(vii) The instrument shall not have a credit sensitive coupon feature, i.e., a
dividend that is reset periodically based in whole or in part on the banks’
credit standing. For this purpose, any reference rate including a broad index
which is sensitive to changes to the bank’s own creditworthiness and / or to
changes in the credit worthiness of the wider banking sector shall be treated
as a credit sensitive reference rate. A bank desirous of offering floating
reference rate shall take prior approval of the Reserve Bank (Department
of Regulation) as regard permissibility of such reference rates;
(viii) A bank may have dividend stopper arrangement that stops dividend
payments on common shares in the event the holders of AT 1 instruments
are not paid dividend / coupon. However, dividend stoppers shall neither
impede the full discretion that bank shall have at all times to cancel
distributions / payments on the AT 1 instrument, nor shall they act in a way
that could hinder the re-capitalisation of the bank. For example, it shall not
be permitted for a stopper on an AT 1 instrument to:
(a) attempt to stop payment on another instrument where the payments
on this other instrument were not also fully discretionary;
(b) prevent distributions to shareholders for a period that extends beyond
the point in time that dividends / coupons on the AT 1 instrument are
resumed;
(c) impede the normal operation of the bank or any restructuring activity
(including acquisitions / disposals); and
18

(d) a stopper may act to prohibit actions that are equivalent to the
payment of a dividend, such as the bank undertaking discretionary
share buybacks, if otherwise permitted.
(10) Treatment in Insolvency
The instrument shall not contribute to liabilities exceeding assets if such a
balance sheet test forms part of a requirement to prove insolvency under any law
or otherwise.
(11) Loss Absorption Features
PNCPS shall have loss absorption through conversion / write-down / write-off on
breach of pre-specified trigger and at the point of non-viability, as detailed in
paragraph 26 of Reserve Bank of India (Commercial Banks - Prudential Norms
on Capital Adequacy) Directions, 2025. The pre-specified trigger for PNCPS
issued by a bank shall be at least CET 1 capital of 7 per cent of RWAs.
(12) Prohibition on purchase / funding of PNCPS
Neither the bank nor a related party over which the bank exercises control or
significant influence (as defined under relevant Accounting Standards) shall
purchase PNCPS, nor shall the bank directly or indirectly fund the purchase of
the instrument. A bank shall also not grant advances against the security of
PNCPS issued by it.
(13) Re-Capitalisation
The instrument shall not have any features that hinder re-capitalisation, such as
provisions which require the issuer to compensate investors if a new instrument
is issued at a lower price during a specified time frame.
(14) Reporting of non-payment of dividends and non-exercise of call option
All instances of non-payment of dividends and non-exercise of call option shall
be notified by the issuing bank to the Chief General Managers-in-Charge of
Department of Regulation and Department of Supervision respectively of the
Reserve Bank of India, Mumbai.
(15) Seniority of Claim
The claims of the investors in instruments shall be:
19

(i) Superior to the claims of investors in equity shares;
(ii) Subordinated to the claims of PDIs, all Tier 2 regulatory capital instruments,
depositors and general creditors of the bank; and
(iii) is neither secured nor covered by a guarantee of the issuer or related entity
or other arrangement that legally or economically enhances the seniority of
the claim vis-à-vis bank creditors.
(16) Investment in instruments raised in Indian rupees by Foreign Entities / Non-
Resident Indians (NRIs)
(i) Investment by Financial Institutional Investors (FIIs) and NRIs shall be
within an overall limit of 49 per cent and 24 per cent of the issue
respectively, subject to the investment by each FII not exceeding 10 per
cent of the issue, and investment by each NRI not exceeding 5 per cent of
the issue. Investment by FIIs in these instruments shall be outside the
External Commercial Borrowing (ECB) limit for rupee-denominated
corporate debt, as fixed by the Government of India from time to time. The
overall non-resident holding of preference shares and equity shares in
public sector banks shall be subject to the applicable statutory / regulatory
limit.
(ii) A bank shall comply with the terms and conditions, if any, stipulated by
SEBI / other regulatory authorities in regard to issue of the instruments.
(17) Compliance with Reserve Requirements
(i) The funds collected by various branches of the bank or other banks for the
issue and held pending finalisation of allotment of the AT 1 preference
shares, shall have to be taken into account for the purpose of calculating
reserve requirements; and
(ii) However, the total amount raised by the bank by issue of PNCPS shall not
be reckoned as liability for calculation of Net Demand and Time Liabilities
(NDTL) for the purpose of reserve requirements and, as such, shall not
attract Cash Reserve Ratio (CRR) / Statutory Liquidity Ratio (SLR)
requirements.
(18) Reporting of Issuances
20

(i) A bank issuing PNCPS shall submit a report to the Chief General Manager-
in-Charge, Department of Regulation, Central Office, Reserve Bank of
India, Mumbai, giving details of the instrument as per the format prescribed
in Annex II duly certified by the Chief Compliance Officer of the bank, soon
after the issue is completed; and
(ii) The issue-wise details of amount raised as PNCPS qualifying for AT 1
capital by the bank from FIIs / NRIs are required to be reported within 30
days of the issue to the Chief General Manager-in-Charge, Reserve Bank
of India, Foreign Exchange Department, Central Office, Mumbai 400 001 in
the proforma given in Annex I. The details of the secondary market sales /
purchases by FIIs and the NRIs in these instruments on the stock exchange
shall be reported by the custodians and designated banks, respectively, to
the Reserve Bank as per applicable FEMA guidelines, as amended from
time to time.
(19) Investment in AT 1 capital instruments (PNCPS) Issued by other banks /
Financial Institutions (FIs)
(i) A bank's investment in PNCPS issued by other banks and FIs shall be
reckoned along with the investment in other instruments eligible for capital
status while computing compliance with the overall ceiling of 10 per cent of
investing banks' total regulatory capital as prescribed vide paragraph
18(7)(i) and also subject to cross holding limits;
(ii) A bank's investments in PNCPS issued by other banks / FIs shall attract
risk weight as provided in paragraph 31 of these Directions, whichever
applicable for capital adequacy purposes.
(iii) A bank's investments in the PNCPS of other banks shall be treated as
exposure to capital market and be reckoned for the purpose of compliance
with the prudential ceiling for capital market exposure as fixed by the
Reserve Bank.
(20) Classification in the Balance Sheet
PNCPS shall be classified as capital and shown under 'Schedule I - Capital' of
the Balance Sheet.
21

(21) PNCPS to Retail Investors
A bank issuing PNCPS to retail investors, subject to approval of its Board, shall
adhere to the following conditions:
(i) The requirement for specific sign-off as quoted below from the investors for
having understood the features and risks of the instrument shall be
incorporated in the common application form of the proposed issue:
"By making this application, I / We acknowledge that I / We have
understood the terms and conditions of the Issue of [insert the name
of the instruments being issued] of [Name of The Bank] as disclosed
in the Draft Shelf Prospectus, Shelf Prospectus and Tranche
Document"; and
(ii) All the publicity material, application form and other communication with the
investor shall clearly state in bold letters (Arial with font size 14) how
PNCPS is different from common shares. In addition, the loss absorbency
features of the instrument shall be clearly explained and the investor’s sign-
off for having understood these features and other terms and conditions of
the instrument shall be obtained.
E.2 Criteria for inclusion of Basel III Perpetual Debt Instrument (PDI) in AT 1
capital
13. The PDI that may be issued as bonds or debentures by a bank shall meet the
following terms and conditions to qualify for inclusion in AT 1 capital for capital
adequacy purposes:
Terms of issue of instruments denominated in Indian rupees
(1) Paid-in Status
The instruments shall be issued by the bank (i.e., not by any ‘SPV’ etc., set up
by the bank for this purpose) and fully paid-in.
(2) Amount
The amount of PDI to be raised shall be decided by the Board of Directors of a
bank.
22

(3) Limits
While complying with minimum Tier 1 of 7.5 per cent of RWAs, a bank cannot
admit, PDI together with PNCPS in AT 1 capital, more than 1.5 per cent of RWAs.
However, once this minimum total Tier 1 capital has been complied with, any
additional PNCPS and PDI issued by the bank can be included in total Tier 1
capital reported. While complying with minimum total capital of 15 per cent of
RWAs, any excess PNCPS and PDI can be reckoned to comply with Tier 2
capital if the latter is less than 7.5 per cent of RWAs..
(4) Maturity Period
The PDIs shall be perpetual, i.e., there is no maturity date and there shall be no
step-ups or other incentives to redeem.
(5) Rate of Interest
The interest payable to the investors shall be either at a fixed rate or at a floating
rate referenced to a market determined rupee interest benchmark rate.
(6) Optionality
PDIs shall not have any ‘put option’. However, a bank may issue the instruments
with a ‘call option’ at a particular date subject to following conditions:
(i) The call option on the instrument is permissible after the instrument has run
for at least five years;
(ii) To exercise a call option a bank shall receive prior approval of the Reserve
Bank (Department of Regulation);
(iii) A bank shall not do anything which creates an expectation that the call will
be exercised. For example, to preclude such expectation of the instrument
being called, the dividend / coupon reset date need not be co-terminus with
the call date. A bank may, at its discretion, consider having an appropriate
gap between dividend / coupon reset date and call date; and
(iv) A bank must not exercise a call unless:
(a) It replaces the called instrument with capital of the same or better
quality and the replacement of this capital is done at conditions which
23

are sustainable for the income capacity of the bank. Replacement
issue can be concurrent with but not after the instrument is called; or
(b) The bank demonstrates that its capital position is well above the
minimum capital requirements after the call option is exercised.
Explanation - Minimum capital requirement refers to CET 1 of 6 per
cent of RWAs, Tier capital of 7.50 per cent of RWAs, and total capital
of 15 per cent of RWAs.
(v) The use of tax event and regulatory event calls may be permitted. However,
exercise of the calls on account of these events is subject to the
requirements set out in points (ii) to (iv) above. The Reserve Bank may
permit the bank to exercise the call only if it is convinced that the bank was
not in a position to anticipate these events at the time of issuance of PDIs.
Explanation- To illustrate, if there is a change in tax treatment which makes
the capital instrument with tax deductible coupons into an instrument with
non-tax-deductible coupons, then the bank would have the option (not
obligation) to repurchase the instrument. In such a situation, a bank may be
allowed to replace the capital instrument with another capital instrument
that perhaps does have tax deductible coupons. Similarly, if there is a
downgrade of the instrument in regulatory classification (e.g., if it is decided
by the Reserve Bank to exclude an instrument from regulatory capital) the
bank may have the option to call the instrument and replace it with an
instrument with a better regulatory classification, or a lower coupon with the
same regulatory classification with prior approval of the Reserve Bank.
However, a bank shall not create an expectation / signal an early
redemption / maturity of the regulatory capital instrument.
(7) Repurchase / Buy-back / Redemption
(i) Principal of the instruments may be repaid (e.g., through repurchase or
redemption) only with the prior approval of the Reserve Bank and a bank
shall not assume or create market expectations that supervisory approval
shall be given (this repurchase / buy-back / redemption of the principal is in
a situation other than in the event of exercise of call option by the bank.
One of the major differences is that in the case of the former, the option to
24

offer the instrument for repayment on announcement of the decision to
repurchase / buy-back / redeem the instrument, will lie with the investors
whereas, in case of the latter, it lies with the bank);
(ii) A bank may repurchase / buy-back / redeem only if:
(a) It replaces such instrument with capital of the same or better quality
and the replacement of this capital is done at conditions which are
sustainable for the income capacity of the bank; or
(b) The bank demonstrates that its capital position is well above the
minimum capital requirements after the repurchase / buy-back /
redemption.
(8) Coupon Discretion
(i) The bank shall have full discretion at all times to cancel distributions /
payments.
Explanation – Due to full discretion at all times to cancel distributions /
payments ‘dividend pushers’ are prohibited. An instrument with a dividend
pusher obliges the issuing bank to make a dividend / coupon payment on
the instrument if it has made a payment on another (typically more junior)
capital instrument or share. This obligation is inconsistent with the
requirement for full discretion at all times. Furthermore, the term ‘cancel
distributions / payments’ means extinguish these payments. It does not
permit features that require the bank to make distributions / payments in
kind;
(ii) Cancellation of discretionary payments shall not be an event of default;
(iii) A bank shall have full access to cancelled payments to meet obligations as
they fall due;
(iv) Cancellation of distributions / payments shall not impose restrictions on the
bank except in relation to distributions to common stakeholders;
(v) Coupons shall be paid out of ‘distributable items’. In this context, coupon
shall be paid out of current year profits. However, if current year profits are
not sufficient, coupon may be paid subject to availability of:
25

(a) Profits brought forward from previous years; and / or
(b) Reserves representing appropriation of net profits, including statutory
reserves, and excluding share premium, revaluation reserve, FCTR,
unrealised gains transferred to AFS-Reserve, investment reserve,
and reserves created on amalgamation.
Note: As provided in Reserve Bank of India (Payments Banks –
Classification, Valuation and Operation of Investment Portfolio)
Direction, 2025, the unrealised gains transferred to AFS – Reserve
shall not be available for any distribution such as coupon on AT 1
capital instruments;
(c) The accumulated losses and deferred revenue expenditure, if any,
shall be netted off from (a) and (b) to arrive at the available balances
for payment of coupon;
(d) If the aggregate of: (i) profits in the current year; (ii) profits brought
forward from the previous years; and (iii) permissible reserves as at
(b) above, excluding statutory reserves, net of accumulated losses,
and deferred revenue expenditure are less than the amount of
coupon, only then shall the bank make appropriation from the
statutory reserves. In such cases, a bank is required to report to the
Reserve Bank within twenty-one days from the date of such
appropriation in compliance with Section 17(2) of the BR Act, 1949;
(e) Prior approval of the Reserve Bank for appropriation of reserves as
above, in terms of the Reserve Bank of India (Payments Banks –
Financial Statements: Presentation and Disclosures) Directions, 2025
is not required in this regard; and
(f) However, payment of coupons on PDIs from the reserves is subject
to the issuing bank meeting minimum regulatory requirements for
CET 1, Tier 1 and total capital ratios.
(vi) To meet the eligibility criteria for PDIs, a bank shall ensure and indicate in
its offer documents that it has full discretion at all times to cancel
distributions / payments;
26

(vii) The interest shall not be cumulative;
(viii) The instrument shall not have a credit sensitive coupon feature, i.e., a
dividend that is reset periodically based in whole or in part on the bank’s
credit standing. For this purpose, any reference rate including a broad index
which is sensitive to changes to the bank’s own creditworthiness and / or to
changes in the credit worthiness of the wider banking sector shall be treated
as a credit sensitive reference rate. A bank desirous of offering floating
reference rate may take prior approval of the Reserve Bank (Department of
Regulation) as regard permissibility of such reference rates;
(ix) A bank may have dividend stopper arrangement that stops dividend
payments on common shares in the event the holders of AT1 instruments
are not paid dividend / coupon. However, dividend stoppers shall not
impede the full discretion that bank shall have at all times to cancel
distributions / payments on the AT 1 instrument, nor shall they act in a way
that could hinder the re-capitalisation of the bank. For example, it shall not
be permitted for a stopper on an AT 1 instrument to:
(a) attempt to stop payment on another instrument where the payments
on this other instrument were not also fully discretionary;
(b) prevent distributions to shareholders for a period that extends beyond
the point in time that dividends / coupons on the AT 1 instrument are
resumed;
impede the normal operation of the bank or any restructuring activity
(including acquisitions / disposals); and
(c) A stopper may act to prohibit actions that are equivalent to the
payment of a dividend, such as the bank undertaking discretionary
share buybacks, if otherwise permitted.
(9) Treatment in Insolvency
The instrument shall not contribute to liabilities exceeding assets if such a
balance sheet test forms part of a requirement to prove insolvency under any law
or otherwise.
(10) Loss Absorption Features
27

PDIs shall be classified as liabilities for accounting purposes (not for the purpose
of insolvency as indicated in paragraph 13(9) above). In such cases, these
instruments shall have loss absorption through conversion / write-down / write-
off on breach of pre-specified trigger and at the point of non-viability, as detailed
in paragraph 26 of Reserve Bank of India (Commercial Banks - Prudential Norms
on Capital Adequacy) Directions, 2025. The pre-specified trigger for loss
absorption for PDIs shall be at least CET 1 capital of 7 per cent of RWAs.
(11) Prohibition on purchase / funding of instruments
Neither the bank nor a related party over which the bank exercises control or
significant influence (as defined under relevant Accounting Standards) shall
purchase the instrument, nor shall the bank directly or indirectly fund the
purchase of the instrument. A bank shall also not grant advances against the
security of the debt instruments issued by it.
(12) Re-Capitalisation
The instrument shall not have any features that hinder re-capitalisation, such as
provisions which require the issuer to compensate investors if a new instrument
is issued at a lower price during a specified time frame.
(13) Reporting of non-payment of coupons and non-exercise of call option
All instances of non-payment of coupon and non-exercise of call option shall be
notified by the issuing bank to the Chief General Managers-in-Charge of
Department of Regulation and Department of Supervision respectively of the
Reserve Bank of India, Mumbai.
(14) Seniority of claim
The claims of the investors in instruments shall be:
(i) superior to the claims of investors in equity shares and PNCPS;
(ii) subordinated to the claims of depositors, general creditors and all Tier 2
regulatory capital instruments; and
(iii) neither secured nor covered by a guarantee of the issuer nor related entity
or other arrangement that legally or economically enhances the seniority of
the claim vis-à-vis bank creditors.
28

(15) Investment in instruments raised in Indian Rupees by Foreign Entities / NRIs
(i) Investment by FIIs in instruments raised in Indian Rupees shall be outside
the ECB limit for rupee denominated corporate debt, as fixed by the
Government of India from time to time, for investment by FIIs in corporate
debt instruments. Investment in these instruments by FIIs and NRIs shall
be within an overall limit of 49 per cent and 24 per cent of the issue,
respectively, subject to the investment by each FII not exceeding 10 per
cent of the issue and investment by each NRI not exceeding 5 per cent of
the issue.
(ii) A bank shall comply with the terms and conditions, if any, stipulated by the
SEBI / other regulatory authorities in regard to issue of the instruments.
(16) Terms of Issue of Instruments denominated in foreign currency / rupee
denominated bonds overseas
A bank may augment its capital funds through the issue of PDIs in foreign
currency / rupee denominated bonds overseas without seeking the prior approval
of the Reserve Bank, subject to compliance with the FEMA guidelines as
applicable and the requirements mentioned below:
(i) These instruments shall comply with all terms and conditions as applicable
to the instruments issued in Indian Rupees;
(ii) PDIs issued in foreign currency / rupee denominated bonds overseas shall
be eligible for inclusion in AT 1 capital up to a maximum amount of 1.5 per
cent of RWAs as per the latest available financial statements (audited or
subjected to limited review);
(iii) Instruments issued in foreign currency shall be outside the existing limit for
foreign currency borrowings by Authorised Dealers, stipulated in terms of
Master Direction - Risk Management and Inter-Bank Dealings dated July 5,
2016, as updated from time to time; and
(iv) A bank raising PDIs overseas shall obtain and keep on record a legal
opinion from an advocate / attorney practicing in the relevant legal
jurisdiction, that the terms and conditions of issue of the instrument are in
conformity with these Directions, as amended from to time, can be enforced
29

in the concerned legal jurisdiction and the applicable laws there do not
stand in the way of enforcement of those conditions.
(17) Compliance with Reserve Requirements
The total amount raised by a bank through debt instruments shall not be
reckoned as liability for calculation of NDTL for the purpose of reserve
requirements and, as such, will not attract CRR / SLR requirements.
(18) Reporting of Issuances
A bank issuing PDIs shall submit a report to the Chief General Manager-in-
charge, Department of Regulation, Reserve Bank of India, Mumbai giving details
of the instrument as per the format prescribed in Annex II duly certified by the
compliance officer of the bank, soon after the issue is completed.
(19) Investment in AT 1 debt capital instruments (PDIs) Issued by other banks / FIs
(i) A bank's investment in debt instruments issued by other banks and financial
institutions shall be reckoned along with the investment in other instruments
eligible for capital status while computing compliance with the overall ceiling
of 10 per cent of investing banks’ total regulatory capital as prescribed
under paragraph 18(7)(i) of these Directions and also subject to cross
holding limits; and
(ii) Bank's investments in debt instruments issued by other banks shall attract
risk weight for capital adequacy purposes, as prescribed in paragraph 31
of these Directions.
(20) Classification in the Balance Sheet
The amount raised by way of issue of debt capital instrument shall be classified
under ‘Schedule 4 - Borrowings’ in the Balance Sheet.
(21) PDIs to Retail Investors
A bank issuing PDIs to retail investors, subject to approval of its Board, shall
adhere to the following conditions:
(i) For floating rate instruments, a bank shall not use its fixed deposit rate as
benchmark;
30

(ii) The requirement for specific sign-off as quoted below, from the investors
for having understood the features and risks of the instrument shall be
incorporated in the common application form of the proposed debt issue.
"By making this application, I / We acknowledge that I / We have
understood the terms and conditions of the Issue of [insert the name
of the instruments being issued] of [Name of The Bank] as disclosed
in the Draft Shelf Prospectus, Shelf Prospectus and Tranche
Document "; and
(iii) All the publicity material, application form and other communication with the
investor shall clearly state in bold letters (Arial with font size 14) how a PDI
is different from fixed deposit particularly that it is not covered by deposit
insurance. In addition, the loss absorbency features of the instrument shall
be clearly explained and the investor’s sign-off for having understood these
features and other terms and conditions of the instrument shall be obtained.
F Tier 2 capital
14. Tier 2 capital shall consist of the sum of the following elements:
(i) General Provisions and Loss Reserves
(a) Provisions or loan-loss reserves held against future, presently
unidentified losses, which are freely available to meet losses which
subsequently materialise, shall qualify for inclusion within Tier 2
capital. Accordingly, general provisions on standard assets, floating
provisions, excess provisions which arise on account of sale of NPAs,
and ‘countercyclical provisioning buffer’ shall qualify for inclusion in
Tier 2 capital. However, these items together shall be admitted as Tier
2 capital up to a maximum of 1.25 per cent of the total credit RWAs
under the standardised approach.
Note: A bank may either net off floating provisions from Gross NPAs
to arrive at Net NPAs or reckon it as part of its Tier 2 capital.
(b) Investment Fluctuation Reserve
(c) Provisions ascribed to identified deterioration of particular assets or
loan liabilities, whether individual or grouped shall be excluded.
31

Accordingly, for instance, specific provisions on NPAs, both at
individual account or at portfolio level, provisions in lieu of diminution
in the fair value of assets in the case of restructured advances,
provisions against depreciation in the value of investments shall be
excluded.
(ii) Basel III debt capital instruments issued by the bank, which comply with the
regulatory requirements as specified in paragraph 15;
(iii) Basel II debt capital instruments issued by the bank, i.e., Upper Tier 2 debt
capital instruments and Lower Tier 2 debt capital instruments, which comply
with the regulatory requirements as specified in paragraph 16 and
paragraph 17 respectively;
(iv) Any other type of instrument generally notified by the Reserve Bank from
time to time for inclusion in Tier 2 capital; and
(v) Less: Regulatory adjustments / deductions applied in the calculation of Tier
2 capital [i.e., to be deducted from the sum of items in paragraph 14(i) to
14(iv)].
F.1 Criteria for inclusion of Basel III Debt Capital Instruments as Tier 2 capital
15. The Basel III Tier 2 debt capital instruments that may be issued as bonds /
debentures by a bank shall meet the following terms and conditions to qualify for
inclusion as Tier 2 capital for capital adequacy purposes:
Terms of Issue of Instruments Denominated in Indian Rupees
(1) Paid-in status
The instruments shall be issued by the bank (i.e., not by any ‘SPV’ etc., set up
by the bank for this purpose) and fully paid-in.
(2) Amount
The amount of these debt instruments to be raised shall be decided by the Board
of Directors of a bank.
(3) Maturity period
The debt instruments shall have a minimum maturity of five years and there are
no step-ups or other incentives to redeem.
32

(4) Discount
The debt instruments shall be subjected to a progressive discount for capital
adequacy purposes. As they approach maturity these instruments shall be
subjected to progressive discount as indicated in the table below for being eligible
for inclusion in Tier 2 capital.
Table 1: Progressive discount on debt instruments to be included in Tier 2
Remaining maturity of instruments Rate of discount (%)
Less than one year 100
One year and more but less than two years 80
Two years and more but less than three years 60
Three years and more but less than four years 40
Four years and more but less than five years 20
(5) Rate of interest
(i) The interest payable to the investors shall be either at a fixed rate or at a
floating rate referenced to a market determined rupee interest benchmark
rate.
(ii) The instrument shall not have a credit sensitive coupon feature, i.e., a
coupon that is reset periodically based in whole or in part on the banks’
credit standing. A bank desirous of offering floating reference rate shall take
prior approval of the Reserve Bank (Department of Regulation) as regard
permissibility of such reference rates.
(6) Optionality
The debt instruments shall not have any ‘put option’. However, it may be callable
at the initiative of the issuer only after a minimum of five years subject to following
conditions:
(i) To exercise a call option a bank must receive prior approval of the Reserve
Bank (Department of Regulation); and
(ii) A bank shall not do anything which creates an expectation that the call will
be exercised. For example, to preclude such expectation of the instrument
33

being called, the dividend / coupon reset date need not be co-terminus with
the call date. A bank may, at its discretion, consider having an appropriate
gap between dividend / coupon reset date and call date; and
(iii) A bank shall not exercise a call unless:
(a) It replaces the called instrument with capital of the same or better
quality and the replacement of this capital is done at conditions which
are sustainable for the income capacity of the bank. Replacement
issues can be concurrent with but not after the instrument is called; or
(b) The bank demonstrates that its capital position is well above the
minimum capital requirements after the call option is exercised.
Explanation - Minimum refers to CET 1 capital of 6 per cent of RWAs,
Tier 1 capital of 7.5 per cent of RWAs and Total Capital of 15 per cent
of RWAs;
(iv) The use of tax event and regulatory event calls may be permitted. However,
exercise of the calls on account of these events is subject to the
requirements set out in points (i) to (iii) above. The Reserve Bank may
permit the bank to exercise the call only if it is convinced that the bank was
not in a position to anticipate these events at the time of issuance of these
instruments as explained in case of AT 1 instruments.
(7) Loss Absorption Features
The instruments shall have loss absorption through conversion / write-off at the
point of non-viability, as detailed in paragraph 26 of Reserve Bank of India
(Commercial Banks - Prudential Norms on Capital Adequacy) Directions, 2025.
(8) Treatment in Bankruptcy / Liquidation
The investor shall have no rights to accelerate the repayment of future scheduled
payments (coupon or principal) except in bankruptcy and liquidation.
(9) Prohibition on Purchase / Funding of Instruments
Neither the bank nor a related party over which the bank exercises control or
significant influence (as defined under relevant accounting standards) shall
purchase the instrument, nor shall the bank directly or indirectly fund the
34

purchase of the instrument. A bank shall also not grant advances against the
security of the debt instruments issued by it.
(10) Reporting of non-payment of coupons and non-exercise of call option
All instances of non-payment of coupon and non-exercise of call option shall be
notified by the issuing bank to the Chief General Managers-in-Charge of
Department of Regulation and Department of Supervision of the Reserve Bank
of India, Mumbai.
(11) Seniority of Claim
The claims of the investors in instruments shall be
(i) senior to the claims of investors in instruments eligible for inclusion in Tier
1 capital;
(ii) subordinate to the claims of Basel II Upper Tier 2 bonds and Basel II Lower
Tier 2 bonds;
(iii) subordinate to the claims of all depositors and general creditors of the bank;
and
(iv) neither secured nor covered by a guarantee of the issuer or related entity
or other arrangement that legally or economically enhances the seniority of
the claim vis-à-vis bank creditors.
(12) Investment in instruments raised in Indian rupees by foreign entities / NRIs
(i) Investment by FIIs in Tier 2 instruments raised in Indian rupees shall be
outside the limit for investment in corporate debt instruments, as fixed by
the Government of India from time to time. However, investment by FIIs in
these instruments shall be subjected to a separate ceiling of USD 500
million. In addition, NRIs shall also be eligible to invest in these instruments
as per existing policy;
(ii) A bank shall comply with the terms and conditions, if any, stipulated by the
SEBI / other regulatory authorities in regard to issue of the instruments.
35

(13) Issuance of rupee denominated bonds overseas by a bank
A bank is permitted to raise funds through issuance of rupee denominated bonds
overseas for qualification as debt capital instruments eligible for inclusion as Tier
2 capital, subject to compliance with all the terms and conditions applicable to
instruments issued in Indian rupees and FEMA guidelines, as applicable.
(14) Terms of issue of Basel III Tier 2 Debt capital instruments in foreign currency
(i) A bank may issue Tier 2 debt Instruments in foreign currency without
seeking the prior approval of the Reserve Bank, subject to compliance with
the requirements mentioned below:
(a) Tier 2 Instruments issued in foreign currency shall comply with all
terms and conditions applicable to instruments issued in Indian
rupees;
(b) The total outstanding amount of Tier 2 Instruments in foreign currency
shall not exceed 25 per cent of the unimpaired Tier 1 capital. This
eligible amount shall be computed with reference to the amount of Tier
1 capital as on March 31 of the previous financial year, after deduction
of goodwill and other intangible assets but before the deduction of
investments, as per paragraph 18; and
(c) This shall be in addition to the existing limit for foreign currency
borrowings by Authorised Dealers stipulated in terms of Master
Direction - Risk Management and Inter-Bank Dealings dated July 5,
2016, as updated from time to time.
(ii) A bank raising Tier 2 bonds overseas (including both foreign currency and
rupee denominated bonds raised overseas) shall obtain and keep on record
a legal opinion from an advocate / attorney practicing in the relevant legal
jurisdiction, that the terms and conditions of issue of the instrument are in
conformity with these Directions, as amended from to time, can be enforced
in the concerned legal jurisdiction and the applicable laws there do not
stand in the way of enforcement of those conditions.
36

(15) Compliance with reserve requirements
(i) The funds collected by various branches of the bank or other banks for the
issue and held pending finalisation of allotment of the Tier 2 capital
instruments shall have to be taken into account for the purpose of
calculating reserve requirements; and
(ii) The total amount raised by a bank through Tier 2 instruments shall be
reckoned as liability for the calculation of net demand and time liabilities for
the purpose of reserve requirements and, as such, will attract CRR / SLR
requirements.
(16) Reporting of Issuances
A bank issuing debt instruments shall submit a report to the Chief General
Manager-in-Charge, Department of Regulation, Reserve Bank of India, Mumbai,
giving details of the instrument as per the format prescribed in Annex II duly
certified by the compliance officer of the bank, soon after the issue is completed.
(17) Investment in Tier 2 debt capital instruments issued by other banks / FIs
(i) A bank's investment in Tier 2 debt instruments issued by other banks and
FIs shall be reckoned along with the investment in other instruments eligible
for capital status while computing compliance with the overall ceiling of 10
per cent of investing bank’s total regulatory capital prescribed under
paragraph 18(7)(i) and also subject to cross holding limits; and
(ii) Bank's investments in Tier 2 instruments issued by other banks / FIs will
attract risk weight as per paragraph 31 of these Directions.
(18) Classification in the Balance Sheet
The amount raised by way of issue of Tier 2 debt capital instrument shall be
classified under ‘Schedule 4 – Borrowings’ in the Balance Sheet.
(19) Debt capital instruments to retail investors
A bank issuing subordinated debt to retail investors, subject to approval of its
Board, shall adhere to the following conditions:
(i) For floating rate instruments, the bank shall not use its Fixed Deposit rate
as benchmark;
37

(ii) The requirement for specific sign-off as quoted below, from the investors
for having understood the features and risks of the instrument shall be
incorporated in the common application form of the proposed debt issue.
"By making this application, I / We acknowledge that I / We have
understood the terms and conditions of the Issue of [insert the name
of the instruments being issued] of [Name of The Bank] as disclosed
in the Draft Shelf Prospectus, Shelf Prospectus and Tranche
Document "; and
(iii) All the publicity material, application form and other communication with the
investor should clearly state in bold letters (Arial font size 14) how a
subordinated bond is different from Fixed Deposit particularly that it is not
covered by Deposit Insurance. In addition, the loss absorbency features of
the instrument shall be clearly explained and the investor’s sign-off for
having understood these features and other terms and conditions of the
instrument should be obtained.
F.2 Criteria for inclusion of Basel II Upper Tier 2 debt capital instruments as Tier
2 capital
16. The Basel II Upper Tier 2 debt capital instruments that may be issued as bonds
/ debentures by a bank shall meet the following terms and conditions to qualify
for inclusion as Tier 2 capital for capital adequacy purposes.
Terms of Issue of Upper Tier 2 capital instruments in Indian rupees
(1) Amount
The amount of Upper Tier 2 instruments to be raised shall be decided by the
Board of Directors of a bank.
(2) Limits
Upper Tier 2 instruments, along with other components of Tier 2 capital other
than Basel III Tier 2 bonds, shall not exceed 100 per cent of Tier 1 capital. The
above limit shall be based on the amount of Tier 1 capital after deduction of
goodwill, DTA and other intangible assets but before the deduction of
investments, as required in paragraph 18.
(3) Maturity Period
38

(i) Upper Tier 2 instruments shall have a minimum maturity of 15 years.
(ii) Upper Tier 2 instruments shall be subjected to progressive discount as
indicated in the Table 2 below for being eligible for inclusion in Tier 2 capital:
Table 2: Rate of discount on debt instruments qualifying for inclusion as Basel II Upper
Tier 2 capital
Remaining maturity of instruments Rate of discount (%)
Less than one year 100
One year and more but less than two years 80
Two years and more but less than three years 60
Three years and more but less than four years 40
Four years and more but less than five years 20
(4) Rate of interest
The interest payable to the investors shall be either at a fixed rate or at a floating
rate referenced to a market determined rupee interest benchmark rate. The
instrument shall not have a credit sensitive coupon feature, i.e., a coupon that is
reset periodically based in whole or in part on the banks’ credit standing. A bank
desirous of offering floating reference rate shall take prior approval of the
Reserve Bank (Department of Regulation) as regard permissibility of such
reference rates.
(5) Options
Upper Tier 2 instruments shall not be issued with a ‘put option’. However, a bank
may issue the instruments with a ‘call option’ subject to strict compliance with
each of the following conditions:
(i) Call option may be exercised only if the instrument has run for at least 10
years;
(ii) Call option shall be exercised only with the prior approval of the Reserve
Bank (Department of Regulation). While considering the proposals received
from a bank for exercising the call option the Reserve Bank shall, among
other things, take into consideration the bank’s CRAR position both at the
time of exercise of the call option and after exercise of the call option.
(6) Step-up option
39

Upper Tier 2 instruments shall not have any step-up option.
(7) Lock-in-Clause
(i) Upper Tier 2 instruments shall be subjected to a lock-in clause in terms of
which the issuing bank shall not be liable to pay either interest or principal,
even at maturity, if
(a) the bank’s CRAR is below the minimum regulatory requirement
prescribed by the Reserve Bank; OR
(b) the impact of such payment results in bank’s CRAR falling below or
remaining below the minimum regulatory requirement prescribed by
the Reserve Bank;
(ii) However, a bank may pay interest with the prior approval of the Reserve
Bank when the impact of such payment may result in net loss or increase
the net loss provided CRAR remains above the regulatory norm;
(iii) The interest amount due and remaining unpaid may be allowed to be paid
in the later years subject to the bank complying with the above regulatory
requirement;
(iv) All instances of invocation of the lock-in clause should be notified by the
issuing bank to the Chief General Managers-in-Charge of Department of
Regulation and Department of Supervision of the Reserve Bank of India,
Mumbai.
(8) Seniority of claim
The claims of the investors in Upper Tier 2 instruments shall be:
(i) superior to the claims of investors in instruments eligible for inclusion in Tier
1 capital;
(ii) superior to the claims of Basel III Tier 2 debt capital instruments;
(iii) subordinate to the claims of Basel II Lower Tier 2 debt capital instruments;
(iv) subordinate to the claims of all depositors and general creditors of the bank;
and
40

(v) neither secured nor covered by a guarantee of the issuer or related entity
or other arrangement that legally or economically enhances the seniority of
the claim vis-à-vis bank creditors.
(9) Redemption
Upper Tier 2 instruments shall not be redeemable at the initiative of the holder. All
redemptions shall be made only with the prior approval of the Reserve Bank
(Department of Regulation).
(10) Other conditions
(i) Upper Tier 2 instruments shall be fully paid-up, unsecured, and free of any
restrictive clauses.
(ii) Investment by FIIs in Upper Tier 2 Instruments raised in Indian rupees shall
be outside the limit for investment in corporate debt instruments, as fixed
by the Government of India from time to time. However, investment by FIIs
in these instruments shall be subject to a separate ceiling of USD 500
million. In addition, NRIs shall also be eligible to invest in these instruments
as per existing policy.
(iii) A bank shall comply with the terms and conditions, if any, stipulated by the
SEBI / other regulatory authorities in regard to issue of the instruments.
(11) Terms of issue of Upper Tier 2 capital instruments in foreign currency
A bank may augment its capital funds through the issue of Upper Tier 2
Instruments in foreign currency without seeking the prior approval of the Reserve
Bank of India, subject to compliance with the under-mentioned requirements:
(i) Upper Tier 2 Instruments issued in foreign currency should comply with all
terms and conditions applicable to instruments issued in Indian rupees.
(ii) The total amount of Upper Tier 2 Instruments issued in foreign currency
shall not exceed 25 per cent of the unimpaired Tier 1 capital. This eligible
amount will be computed with reference to the amount of Tier I capital as
on March 31 of the previous financial year, after deduction of goodwill and
41

other intangible assets but before the deduction of investments, as required
in paragraph 18.
(iii) This will be in addition to the existing limit for foreign currency borrowings
by Authorised Dealers stipulated in terms of Master Direction - Risk
Management and Inter-Bank Dealings dated July 05, 2016.
(12) Compliance with Reserve Requirements
(i) The funds collected by various branches of the bank or other banks for the
issue and held pending finalisation of allotment of the Upper Tier 2 Capital
instruments shall have to be taken into account for the purpose of
calculating reserve requirements; and
(ii) The total amount raised by a bank through Upper Tier 2 instruments shall
be reckoned as liability for the calculation of NDTL for the purpose of
reserve requirements and, as such, will attract CRR / SLR requirements.
(13) Reporting requirements
A bank issuing upper Tier 2 instruments shall submit a report to the Chief General
Manager-in-Charge, Department of Regulation, Reserve Bank of India, Mumbai
giving details of the instrument as per the format prescribed in Annex II duly
certified by the compliance officer of the bank, soon after the issue is completed.
(14) Investment in Upper Tier 2 instruments issued by other banks / FIs
(i) A bank's investment in Upper Tier 2 instruments issued by other banks and
FIs shall be reckoned along with the investment in other instruments eligible
for capital status while computing compliance with the overall ceiling of 10
percent of an investing bank’s total regulatory capital as prescribed vide
paragraph 18(7)(i) and also subject to cross holding limits.
(ii) A bank's investments in Upper Tier 2 instruments issued by other banks /
financial institutions shall attract risk weight as per paragraph 31 of these
Directions.
(15) Prohibition on purchase / funding of instruments
Neither the bank nor a related party over which the bank exercises control or
significant influence (as defined under relevant accounting standards) shall
42

purchase the instrument, nor shall the bank directly or indirectly fund the
purchase of the instrument. A bank shall also not grant advances against the
security of the Upper Tier 2 instruments issued by it.
(16) Classification in the Balance Sheet
The amount raised through Upper Tier 2 capital instruments shall be classified
under ‘Schedule 4- Borrowing’ in the Balance Sheet.
(17) Treatment in bankruptcy / liquidation
The investor must have no rights to accelerate the repayment of future scheduled
payments (coupon or principal) except in bankruptcy and liquidation.
(18) Reporting of non-payment of coupons and non-exercise of call option
All instances of non-payment of coupon and non-exercise of call option shall be
notified by an issuing bank to the Chief General Managers-in-Charge of
Department of Regulation and Department of Supervision of the Reserve Bank
of India, Mumbai.
(19) Issuance of rupee denominated bonds overseas by a bank
A bank is permitted to raise funds through issuance of rupee denominated bonds
overseas for qualification as Upper Tier 2 debt capital instruments eligible for
inclusion as Tier 2 capital, subject to compliance with all the terms and conditions
applicable to instruments issued in Indian rupees and FEMA guidelines, as
applicable.
(20) Upper Tier 2 debt capital instruments to retail investors
A bank issuing subordinated debt to retail investors, subject to approval of its
Board, shall adhere to the following conditions:
(i) For floating rate instruments, the bank shall not use its fixed deposit rate as
benchmark;
(ii) The requirement for specific sign-off, as quoted below, from the investors
for having understood the features and risks of the instrument shall be
incorporated in the common application form of the proposed debt issue:
"By making this application, I / We acknowledge that I / We have
understood the terms and conditions of the Issue of [insert the name
43

of the instruments being issued] of [Name of The Bank] as disclosed
in the Draft Shelf Prospectus, Shelf Prospectus and Tranche
Document "; and
(iii) All the publicity material, application form and other communication with the
investor should clearly state in bold letters (Arial font size 14) how a
subordinated bond is different from Fixed Deposit particularly that it is not
covered by Deposit Insurance. In addition, the loss absorbency features of
the instrument shall be clearly explained and the investor’s sign-off for
having understood these features and other terms and conditions of the
instrument should be obtained.
F.3 Criteria for inclusion of Basel II Lower Tier 2 Debt Instruments as Tier 2
Capital
17. The Basel II Lower Tier 2 debt capital instruments, that may be issued as bonds
/ debentures by a bank, shall meet the following terms and conditions to qualify
for inclusion as Tier 2 capital for capital adequacy purposes:
Terms of issue of bond
(1) Amount
The amount of subordinated debt to be raised shall be decided by the Board of
Directors of a bank.
(2) Maturity period
(i) Subordinated debt instruments with an initial maturity period of less than 5
years, or with a remaining maturity of one-year shall not be included as part
of Tier 2 Capital. They shall be subjected to progressive discount as they
approach maturity at the rates shown below:
Table 3: Rate of discount on subordinated debt instruments qualifying for inclusion as
Basel II Lower Tier 2 capital
Remaining maturity of instruments Rate of discount (%)
Less than one year 100
One year and more but less than two years 80
Two years and more but less than three years 60
Three years and more but less than four years 40
44

Four years and more but less than five years 20
(ii) The bonds shall have a minimum initial maturity of five years. However, if
the bonds are issued in the last quarter of the year, i.e., from 1st January to
31st March, they should have a minimum initial tenure of sixty three months.
(3) Rate of interest
The interest payable to the investors shall be either at a fixed rate or at a floating
rate referenced to a market determined rupee interest benchmark rate. The
instrument shall not have a credit sensitive coupon feature, i.e., a coupon that is
reset periodically based in whole or in part on the banks’ credit standing. A bank
desirous of offering floating reference rate shall take prior approval of the
Reserve Bank (Department of Regulation) as regard permissibility of such
reference rates.
(4) Call option
Subordinated debt instruments shall not be issued with a 'put option'. However,
a bank may issue the instruments with a call option subject to strict compliance
with each of the following conditions:
(i) Call option may be exercised after the instrument has run for at least five
years; and
(ii) Call option shall be exercised only with the prior approval of the Reserve
Bank (Department of Regulation). While considering the proposals received
from a bank for exercising the call option the Reserve Bank shall, among
other things, take into consideration the bank's CRAR position both at the
time of exercise of the call option and after exercise of the call option.
(5) Step-up option
Subrodinated debt instruments shall not have any step-up option.
(6) Seniority of claim
The claims of the investors in subordinated debt instruments shall be:
(i) superior to the claims of investors in instruments eligible for inclusion in
Tier 1 capital;
45

(ii) superior to the claims of Basel III Tier 2 debt capital instruments and Basel
II Upper Tier 2 debt capital instruments;
(iii) subordinate to the claims of all depositors and general creditors of a bank;
and
(iv) neither secured nor covered by a guarantee of the issuer nor related entity
or other arrangement that legally or economically enhances the seniority of
the claim vis-à-vis bank creditors.
(7) Other conditions
(i) The instruments shall be fully paid-up, unsecured, free of restrictive clauses
and should not be redeemable at the initiative of the holder or without the
consent of the Reserve Bank.
(ii) Necessary permission from Foreign Exchange Department shall be
obtained for issuing the instruments to NRIs / FIIs.
(iii) A bank shall comply with the terms and conditions, if any, set by the SEBI /
other regulatory authorities in regard to issue of the instruments.
(8) Limits
Subordinated debt instruments shall be limited to 50 per cent of Tier 1 capital of
a bank. These instruments, together with other components of Tier 2 capital,
shall not exceed 100 per cent of Tier 1 capital.
(9) Prohibition on purchase / funding of instruments
Neither the bank nor a related party over which the bank exercises control or
significant influence (as defined under relevant Accounting Standards) shall
purchase the instrument, nor shall the bank directly or indirectly fund the
purchase of the instrument. A bank shall also not grant advances against the
security of the Lower Tier 2 instruments issued by it.
(10) Compliance with reserve requirements
The total amount of subordinated debt raised by the bank shall be reckoned as
liability for the calculation of net demand and time liabilities for the purpose of
reserve requirements and, as such, will attract CRR / SLR requirements.
(11) Treatment of investment in subordinated debt
46

Investments by a bank in subordinated debt of other banks shall be assigned 100
per cent risk weight for capital adequacy purpose. Also, a bank's investment in
Lower Tier 2 instruments issued by other banks and FIs shall be reckoned along
with the investment in other instruments eligible for capital status while
computing compliance with the overall ceiling of 10 percent of an investing bank’s
total regulatory capital as prescribed vide paragraph 18(7)(i) and also subject to
cross holding limits.
(12) Subordinated debt to retail investors
A bank issuing subordinated debt to retail investors shall adhere to the following
conditions:
(i) The requirement for specific sign-off as quoted below, from the investors
for having understood the features and risks of the instrument shall be
incorporated in the common application form of the proposed debt issue.
"By making this application, I / We acknowledge that I / We have
understood the terms and conditions of the Issue of [insert the name
of the instruments being issued] of [Name of The Bank] as disclosed
in the Draft Shelf Prospectus, Shelf Prospectus and Tranche
Document ".
(ii) For floating rate instruments, a bank shall not use its fixed deposit rate as
benchmark.
(iii) All the publicity material, application form and other communication with the
investor should clearly state in bold letters (Arial with font size 14) how a
subordinated bond is different from fixed deposit particularly that it is not
covered by Deposit Insurance. In addition, the loss absorbency features of
the instrument shall be clearly explained and the investor’s sign-off for
having understood these features and other terms and conditions of the
instrument should be obtained.
(13) Subordinated debt in foreign currency
A bank shall take approval of the Reserve Bank on a case-by-case basis.
(14) Reporting requirements
47

A bank issuing debt instruments shall submit a report to the Chief General
Manager-in-Charge, Department of Regulation, Reserve Bank of India, Mumbai,
giving details of the instrument as per the format prescribed in Annex II duly
certified by the compliance officer of the bank, soon after the issue is completed.
(15) Classification in the balance sheet
The amount of subordinated debt raised should be classified under ‘Schedule 4-
Borrowing’ in the balance sheet.
(16) Treatment in bankruptcy / liquidation
The investor must have no rights to accelerate the repayment of future scheduled
payments (coupon or principal) except in bankruptcy and liquidation.
(17) Reporting of non-payment of coupons and non-exercise of call option
All instances of non-payment of coupon and non-exercise of call option shall be
notified by an issuing bank to the Chief General Managers-in-Charge of
Department of Regulation and Department of Supervision of the Reserve Bank
of India, Mumbai.
G Regulatory adjustments / deductions
18. The following paragraphs deal with the regulatory adjustments / deductions
which shall be applied to regulatory capital.
(1) Goodwill and all other Intangible Assets
(i) Goodwill and all other intangible assets shall be deducted from CET 1
capital including any goodwill included in the valuation of significant
investments in the capital of banking, financial and insurance entities. In
terms of AS 23 - Accounting for investments in associates - goodwill /
capital reserve arising on the acquisition of an associate by an investor shall
be included in the carrying amount of investment in the associate but shall
be disclosed separately. Therefore, if the acquisition of equity interest in
any associate involves payment which can be attributable to goodwill, this
shall be deducted from the CET 1 capital of a bank.
(ii) The full amount of the intangible assets shall be deducted net of any
associated Deferred Tax Liabilities (DTL) which will be extinguished if the
48

intangible assets become impaired or derecognised under the relevant
Accounting Standards. For this purpose, the definition of intangible assets
shall be in accordance with the applicable Accounting Standards. Losses
in the current period and those brought forward from previous periods shall
also be deducted from CET 1 capital, if not already deducted.
(2) Deferred Tax Assets (DTAs)
(i) DTAs associated with accumulated losses and other such assets shall be
deducted in full, from CET 1 capital.
(ii) DTAs which relate to timing differences (other than those related to
accumulated losses) may, instead of full deduction from CET 1 capital, be
recognised in the CET 1 capital up to 10 per cent of a bank's CET 1 capital,
at its discretion [after the application of all regulatory adjustments
mentioned from paragraphs 18(1) to 18(7)(ii)(c)(ii)]
(iii) Further, the limited recognition of DTAs as at paragraph (ii) above along
with limited recognition of significant investments in the common shares of
financial (i.e., banking, financial and insurance) entities in terms of
paragraph 18(7)(ii)(c)(iii) taken together shall not exceed 15 per cent of the
CET 1 capital, calculated after all regulatory adjustments set out from
paragraphs 18(1) to 20(8). Paragraph 18(2)(vi) below provides an
illustration of this applicable limited recognition. However, a bank shall
ensure that the CET 1 capital arrived at after application of 15 per cent limit,
specified above, shall in no case result in recognising any item more than
the 10 per cent limit applicable individually.
(iv) The amount of DTAs to be deducted from CET 1 capital may be netted with
associated DTLs provided that
(a) both the DTAs and DTLs relate to taxes levied by the same taxation
authority and offsetting is permitted by the relevant taxation authority;
(b) the DTLs permitted to be netted against DTAs shall exclude amounts
that have been netted against the deduction of goodwill, intangibles
and defined benefit pension assets; and
49

(c) the DTLs shall be allocated on a pro rata basis between DTAs subject
to deduction from CET 1 capital as at 18(2)(i) and 18(2)(ii) above.
(v) The amount of DTAs which is not deducted from CET 1 capital (in terms of
paragraph 18(2)(ii) above) shall be risk weighted at 250 per cent as in the
case of significant investments in common shares not deducted from bank's
CET 1 capital as indicated in paragraph 18(7)(ii)(c)(iii).
(vi) Illustration on calculation of 15 per cent of common equity limit on items
subject to limited recognition (i.e., DTAs associated with timing differences
and significant investments in common shares of financial entities)
(a) A bank shall follow the 15 per cent limit on significant investments in
the common shares of financial institutions (banks, insurance and
other financial entities) and DTA arising from timing differences
(collectively referred to as specified items).
(b) The recognition of these specified items will be limited to 15 per cent
of CET 1 capital, after the application of all deductions. To determine
the maximum amount of the specified items that can be recognised*,
a bank shall multiply the amount of CET 1** (after all deductions,
including after the deduction of the specified items in full, i.e., specified
items should be fully deducted from CET1 along with other deductions
first for arriving at CET 1**) by 17.65 per cent. This number i.e., 17.65
per cent is derived from the proportion of 15 per cent to 85 per cent
(15% / 85% = 17.65%).
Note-
(i) * The actual amount that will be recognised may be lower than
this maximum, either because the sum of the three specified
items is below the 15 per cent limit set out in this illustration, or
due to the application of the 10 per cent limit applied to each
item.
(ii) ** At this point, this is a ‘hypothetical’ amount of CET 1 in that it
is used only for the purposes of determining the deduction of the
specified items.
50

(c) As an example, take a bank with ₹85 of common equity (calculated
net of all deductions, including after the deduction of the specified
items in full).
(d) The maximum amount of specified items that can be recognised by
this bank in its calculation of CET 1 capital is ₹85 x 17.65 per cent =
₹15. Any excess above ₹15 shall be deducted from CET 1. If the bank
has specified items (excluding amounts deducted after applying the
individual 10 per cent limits) that in aggregate sum up to the 15 per
cent limit, CET1 after inclusion of the specified items, shall amount to
₹85 + ₹15 = ₹100. The percentage of specified items to total CET 1
shall equal 15 per cent.
(3) Cash flow hedge reserve
(i) The amount of the cash flow hedge reserve that relates to the hedging of
items that are not fair valued on the Balance Sheet (including projected
cash flows) shall be derecognised in the calculation of CET 1 capital. This
means that positive amounts shall be deducted, and negative amounts shall
be added back.
(4) Cumulative gains and losses due to changes in own credit risk on fair valued
financial liabilities
(i) A bank shall derecognise all unrealised gains and losses resulting from
changes in the fair value of liabilities due to changes in the bank’s own
credit risk from CET 1 capital. Additionally, with regard to derivative
liabilities, all accounting valuation adjustments arising from the bank's own
credit risk shall also be derecognised from CET 1 capital. The offsetting
between valuation adjustments arising from the bank's own credit risk and
those arising from its counterparties' credit risk shall not be allowed.
(ii) If a bank values its derivatives and securities financing transactions (SFTs)
liabilities taking into account its own creditworthiness in the form of debit
valuation adjustments (DVAs), then the bank shall deduct all DVAs from its
CET 1 capital, irrespective of whether the DVAs arises due to changes in
its own credit risk or other market factors. Thus, such deduction shall also
include the deduction of initial DVA at inception of a new trade.
51

(5) Defined Benefit Pension Fund (including other defined employees’ funds) assets
and liabilities
(i) Defined benefit pension fund liabilities, as included on the balance sheet,
shall be fully recognised in the calculation of CET 1 capital (i.e., CET 1
capital shall not be increased by derecognising these liabilities). For each
defined benefit pension fund that is an asset on the balance sheet, the asset
shall be deducted in the calculation of CET 1 capital net of any associated
DTL which will be extinguished if the asset becomes impaired or
derecognised under the relevant accounting standards.
(6) Investments in own shares (Treasury stock)
(i) Investment in a bank’s own shares shall be tantamount to repayment of
capital and therefore, it is necessary to knock-off such investment from the
bank’s capital with a view to improving the bank’s quality of capital. This
deduction shall remove the double counting of equity capital arising from
direct holdings, indirect holdings via index funds and potential future
holdings as a result of contractual obligations to purchase own shares.
(ii) A bank shall not repay its equity capital without specific approval of the
Reserve Bank. Repayment of equity capital can take place by way of share
buy-back, investments in own shares (treasury stock) or payment of
dividends out of reserves, none of which is permissible. However, a bank
may end up having indirect investments in its own stock if it invests in /
takes exposures to mutual funds or index funds / securities which have long
position in the bank’s share. In such cases, the bank shall look through
holdings of index securities to deduct exposures to own shares from its CET
1 capital. Following the same approach outlined above, a bank shall deduct
investments in its own AT 1 capital from the calculation of its AT 1 capital
and investments in its own Tier 2 capital from the calculation of its Tier 2
capital. In this regard, the following rules may be observed:
(a) If the amount of investments made by the mutual funds / index funds
/ venture capital funds / private equity funds / investment companies
in the capital instruments of the investing bank is known, the indirect
investment shall be equal to the bank’s investments in such entities
52

multiplied by the percent of investments of these entities in the
investing bank’s respective capital instruments.
(b) If the amount of investments made by the mutual funds / index funds
/ venture capital funds / private equity funds / investment companies
in the capital instruments of the investing bank is not known but, as
per the investment policies / mandate of these entities such
investments are permissible, the indirect investment would be equal
to the bank’s investments in these entities multiplied by 10 per cent of
investments of such entities in the investing bank’s capital
instruments. A bank shall not follow corresponding deduction
approach, i.e., all deductions shall be made from the CET 1 capital
even though, the investments of such entities are in the AT 1 / Tier 2
capital of an investing bank.
Note - In terms of Securities and Exchange Board of India (SEBI)
(Mutual Funds) Regulations 1996, no mutual fund under all its
schemes should own more than ten per cent of any company's paid-
up capital carrying voting rights.
(7) Investments in the capital of banking, financial and insurance entities
The rules under this paragraph shall be applicable to a bank’s equity investments
in other banks and financial entities, even if such investments are exempted from
‘capital market exposure’ limit.
(i) Limits on a bank’s investments in the capital of banking, financial and
insurance entities
(a) A bank’s investments in capital instruments issued by banking,
financial and insurance entities shall not exceed 10 per cent of its total
regulatory capital (Tier 1 plus Tier 2), but after all deductions
mentioned in paragraph 18 [up to paragraph 18(7)];
(b) The indicative list of institutions which shall be deemed to be financial
institutions other than banks and insurance companies for the purpose
of this paragraph is as under:
53

(i) Asset Management Companies of Mutual Funds / Venture
Capital Funds / Private Equity Funds etc.;
(ii) Non-Banking Finance Companies;
(iii) Housing Finance Companies;
(iv) Primary Dealers;
(v) Merchant Banking Companies;
(vi) Entities engaged in activities which are ancillary to the business
of banking under the BR Act, 1949; and
(vii) Central Counterparties (CCPs);
(c) Investments made by a banking subsidiary / associate in the equity or
non- equity regulatory capital instruments issued by its parent bank
shall be deducted from such subsidiaries’ regulatory capital following
corresponding deduction approach, in its capital adequacy
assessment; and
(d) The regulatory treatment of investment by a non-banking financial
associate in the parent bank's regulatory capital shall be governed by
the applicable regulatory capital norms of the respective regulators of
the associate.
(ii) Treatment of a bank’s investments in capital instruments issued by banking,
financial and insurance entities within limits
A schematic representation of treatment of a bank’s investments in capital
instruments of financial entities is shown below. All investments in the
capital instruments issued by banking, financial and insurance entities
within the limits mentioned in paragraph 18(8)(i) shall be subject to the
following rules:
Note - For this purpose, investments may be reckoned at values according
to their classification in terms of Reserve Bank of India (Payments Banks–
Classification, Valuation and Operation of Investment Portfolio) Directions,
2025.
54

(a) Reciprocal cross holdings in the capital of banking, financial and
insurance entities
Reciprocal cross holdings of capital shall be fully deducted. A bank
shall apply a corresponding deduction approach to such investments
in the capital of the other banks, financial institutions and insurance
entities. This means the deduction shall be applied to the same
component of capital (CET 1, AT 1 and Tier 2 capital) for which the
capital would qualify if it was issued by the bank itself. For this
purpose, a holding shall be treated as reciprocal cross holding if the
investee entity has also invested in any class of a bank’s capital
instruments which need not necessarily be the same as the bank’s
holdings.
55

(b) Investments in the capital of banking, financial and insurance entities
where the bank does not own more than 10 per cent of the issued
common share capital of the entity
(i) The regulatory adjustment described in this paragraph applies to
investments in the capital of banking, financial and insurance
entities where a bank does not own more than 10 per cent of the
issued common share capital of individual entity. In addition:
(a) Investments include direct, indirect and synthetic holdings
of capital instruments. For example, a bank shall look
through holdings of index securities to determine its
underlying holdings of capital.
Explanation - Indirect holdings are exposures or part of
exposures that, if a direct holding loses its value, will result in a
loss to the bank substantially equivalent to the loss in the value
of direct holding.
(b) Holdings in both the banking book and trading book shall
be included. Capital includes common stock (paid-up
equity capital) and all other types of cash and synthetic
capital instruments (e.g., subordinated debt).
(c) Underwriting positions held for five working days or less
can be excluded. Underwriting positions held for longer
than five working days shall be included.
(d) If the capital instrument of the entity in which a bank has
invested does not meet the criteria for CET 1, AT 1, or Tier
2 capital of the bank, the capital is to be considered
common shares for the purposes of this regulatory
adjustment. If the investment is issued out of a regulated
financial entity and not included in regulatory capital in the
relevant sector of the financial entity, it is not required to be
deducted.
56

(e) With the prior approval of the Reserve Bank, a bank can
temporarily exclude certain investments where these have
been made in the context of resolving or providing financial
assistance to reorganise a distressed institution.
(ii) If the total of all holdings listed in paragraph 18(7)(ii)(b)(i) above,
in aggregate exceed 10 per cent of the bank’s CET 1 capital
(after applying all other regulatory adjustments in full), then the
amount above 10 per cent shall be deducted, applying a
corresponding deduction approach. This means the deduction
shall be applied to the same component of capital for which the
capital would qualify if it was issued by the bank itself.
Accordingly, the amount to be deducted from the CET 1 capital
shall be calculated as the total of all holdings which in aggregate
exceed 10 per cent of the bank’s CET 1 capital (as per above)
multiplied by the common equity holdings as a percentage of the
total capital holdings. This shall result in a deduction from CET 1
capital which corresponds to the proportion of total capital
holdings held in common equity. Similarly, the amount to be
deducted from AT 1 capital shall be calculated as the total of all
holdings which in aggregate exceed 10 per cent of the bank’s
CET 1 capital (as per above) multiplied by the AT 1 capital
holdings as a percentage of the total capital holdings. The
amount to be deducted from Tier 2 capital shall be calculated as
the total of all holdings which in aggregate exceed 10 per cent of
the bank’s CET 1 capital (as per above) multiplied by the Tier 2
capital holdings as a percentage of the total capital holdings.
(Please refer to illustration given under paragraph
18(7)(ii)(b)(vi)).
(iii) If, under the corresponding deduction approach, a bank is
required to make a deduction from a particular Tier of capital and
it does not have enough capital under that Tier to meet that
deduction, the shortfall shall be deducted from the next higher
Tier of capital (e.g., if a bank does not have enough AT 1 capital
57

to satisfy the deduction, the shortfall shall be deducted from CET
1 capital).
(iv) Investments below the threshold of 10 per cent of a bank’s
CET 1 capital, which are not deducted, shall be risk weighted. In
certain cases, such investments in both scheduled and non-
scheduled commercial banks shall be fully deducted from CET 1
capital of the investing bank.
(v) For risk weighting as indicated in paragraph 18(7)(ii)(b)(iv)
above, investments in securities having comparatively higher
risk weights shall be considered for risk weighting to the extent
required to be risk weighted. In other words, investments with
comparatively poor ratings (i.e., with higher risk weights) shall be
considered for application of risk weighting first and the residual
investments shall be considered for deduction.
(vi) Illustration on regulatory adjustment due to investments in the
capital of banking, financial and insurance entities is as under.
58

(a) Details of regulatory capital structure of a bank
(Amount in ₹ crore)
Paid-up equity capital 300
Eligible Reserve and Surplus 100
Total common equity 400
Eligible AT 1 capital 15
Total Tier 1 capital 415
Eligible Tier 2 capital 135
Total Eligible capital 550
(b) Details of capital structure and bank's investments
Total Capital of the Investee entities Investments of bank in these entities
Entity Tier Total Common Tier Total
CET 1
AT 1 2 capital Equity AT 1 2 investment
Investments in the capital of banking, financial and insurance entities where the bank does not
own more than 10% of the issued common share capital of the entity
A 250 0 80 330 12 0 15 27
B 300 10 0 310 14 10 0 24
Total 550 10 80 640 26 10 15 51
Significant investments in the capital of banking, financial and insurance entities
C 150 20 10 180 20 10 0 30
D 200 10 5 215 25 5 5 35
Total 350 30 15 395 45 15 5 65
(c) Regulatory adjustments on account of investments in
entities where bank does not own more than 10 per cent of
the issued common share capital of the entity
59

C-1: Bifurcation of Investments of bank into Trading and Banking Book
Total
CET 1 AT 1 Tier 2 Invest
ment
Total investments in A & B held in Banking Book 11 6 10 27
Total investments in A & B held in Trading Book 15 4 5 24
Total of Banking and Trading Book Investments in A & B 26 10 15 51
C-2: Regulatory adjustments
Bank's aggregate investment in Common Equity of A & B 26
Bank's aggregate investment in AT 1 capital of A & B 10
Bank's aggregate investment in Tier 2 capital of A & B 15
Total of bank's investment in A and B 51
Bank common equity 400
10% of bank's common equity 40
Bank's total holdings in capital instruments of A & B in excess of 10%
of banks common equity (51-40) 11
Note - Investments in both A and B will qualify for this treatment as individually, both of them are less
than 10% of share capital of respective entity. Investments in C & D do not qualify as bank's
investment is more than 10% of its common share capital.
Banking
C-3: Summary of Regulatory Adjustments Trading Book
Book
Amount to be deducted from common equity of 5.60
the bank (26 / 51) *11
Amount to be deducted from AT 1 of the bank
2.16
(10 / 51) *11
Amount to be deducted from Tier 2 of the bank
3.24
(15 / 51)*11
Total Deduction 11.00
Common equity investments of the bank in A & 20.40 8.63
11.77
B to be risk weighted (26-5.60) (11 / 26) *20.40
Additional Tier 1 capital investments of the bank 7.84
4.70 3.14
in A & B to be risk weighted (10-2.16)
Tier 2 capital investments of the bank in A & B 11.76
7.84 3.92
to be risk weighted (15-3.24)
Total allocation for risk weighting 40.00 21.17 18.83
(d) Regulatory adjustments on account of significant
investments in the capital of banking, financial and
insurance entities.
60

Bank aggregate investment in Common Equity of C & D 45
Bank's aggregate investment in AT 1 capital of C & D 15
Bank's aggregate investment in Tier 2 capital of C & D 5
Total of bank's investment in C and D 65
Bank's common equity 400
10% of bank's common equity 40
Bank's investment in equity of C & D in excess of 10% of
5
its common equity (45-40)
D-1: Summary of regulatory adjustments
Amount to be deducted from common equity of the bank (excess over 10%) 5
Amount to be deducted from Additional Tier 1 of the bank (all Additional Tier 1
15
investments to be deducted)
Amount to be deducted from Tier 2 of the bank (all Tier 2 investments to be
5
deducted)
Total deduction 25
Common equity investments of the bank in C & D to be risk weighted (up to 10%) 40
(e) Total regulatory capital of the bank after regulatory
adjustments
Deductions as Deductions as
Before deduction After deductions
per Table C-3 per Table D-1
Common Equity 400.00 5.61 5.00 387.24*
AT 1 capital 15.00 2.16 15.00 0.00
Tier 2 capital 135.00 3.24 5.00 126.76
Total Regulatory
550.00 11.00 25.00 514.00
capital
*Since there is a shortfall of 2.16 in the AT 1 capital of the bank after deduction, which has to be deducted
from the next higher category of capital i.e., common equity.
(c) Investments in the capital of banking, financial and insurance
entities where the bank owns more than 10 per cent of the issued
common share capital of individual entity
(i) The regulatory adjustment described in this paragraph applies to
investments in the capital of banking, financial and insurance
entities where a bank owns more than 10 per cent of the issued
common share capital of the issuing entity or where the entity is
an affiliate of the bank. In addition:
61

(a) Investments include direct, indirect and synthetic holdings
of capital instruments. For example, a bank shall look
through holdings of index securities to determine its
underlying holdings of capital.
(b) Holdings in both the banking book and trading book shall
be included. Capital includes common stock and all other
types of cash and synthetic capital instruments (e.g.,
subordinated debt).
(c) Underwriting positions held for five working days or less
can be excluded. Underwriting positions held for longer
than five working days shall be included.
(d) If the capital instrument of the entity in which a bank has
invested does not meet the criteria for CET 1, AT 1, or Tier
2 capital of the bank, the capital shall be considered
common shares for the purposes of this regulatory
adjustment. If the investment is issued out of a regulated
financial entity and not included in regulatory capital in the
relevant sector of the financial entity, it is not required to be
deducted.
(e) With the prior approval of the Reserve Bank, a bank can
temporarily exclude certain investments where these have
been made in the context of resolving or providing financial
assistance to reorganise a distressed institution.
Explanation -
(i) An affiliate of a bank is defined as a company that
controls, or is controlled by, or is under common
control with, the bank. Control of a company is
defined as (i) ownership, control, or holding with
power to vote 20 per cent or more of a class of voting
securities of the company; or (ii) consolidation of the
company for financial reporting purposes.
62

(ii) Indirect holdings are exposures or part of exposures
that, if a direct holding loses its value, will result in a
loss to the bank substantially equivalent to the loss in
the value of direct holding.
(ii) Investments other than common shares
All investments included in paragraph 18(7)(ii)(c)(i) above which
are not common shares shall be fully deducted following a
corresponding deduction approach. This means the deduction
shall be applied to the same Tier of capital for which the capital
would qualify if it was issued by a bank itself. If a bank is required
to make a deduction from a particular Tier of capital and it does
not have enough capital under that Tier to meet that deduction,
the shortfall shall be deducted from the next higher Tier of capital
(e.g., if a bank does not have enough AT 1 capital to satisfy the
deduction, the shortfall shall be deducted from CET 1 capital).
(iii) Investments which are common shares
All investments included in paragraph 18(7)(ii)(c)(i) above which
are common shares, and which exceed 10 per cent of a bank’s
CET 1 capital (after the application of all regulatory adjustments)
shall be deducted while calculating CET 1 capital. The amount
that is not deducted (up to 10 per cent if bank’s common equity
invested in the equity capital of such entities) in the calculation
of CET 1 shall be risk weighted at 250 per cent [refer to
illustration given under paragraph 18(7)(ii)(b)(vi)]). However, in
certain cases, such investments in both scheduled and non-
scheduled commercial banks shall be fully deducted from CET 1
capital of an investing bank as required in Paragraph 31 of these
Directions.
(iii) With regard to computation of indirect holdings through mutual funds or
index funds, of capital of banking, financial and insurance entities as
mentioned in paragraphs 18(7)(ii)(b) and paragraphs 18(7)(ii)(c) above, the
following rules shall be observed:
63

(a) If the amount of investments made by the mutual funds / index funds
/ venture capital funds / private equity funds / investment companies
in the capital instruments of the financial entities is known, the indirect
investment of a bank in such entities shall be equal to bank’s
investments in these entities multiplied by the percent of investments
of such entities in the financial entities’ capital instruments;
(b) If the amount of investments made by the mutual funds / index funds
/ venture capital funds / private equity funds / investment companies
in the capital instruments of the investing bank is not known but, as
per the investment policies / mandate of these entities such
investments are permissible, the indirect investment shall be equal to
the bank’s investments in these entities multiplied by maximum
permissible limit which these entities are authorized to invest in the
financial entities’ capital instruments; and
(c) If neither the amount of investments made by the mutual funds / index
funds / venture capital funds / private equity funds in the capital
instruments of financial entities nor the maximum amount which these
entities can invest in financial entities are known but, as per the
investment policies / mandate of these entities such investments are
permissible, the entire investment of the bank in these entities shall
be treated as indirect investment in financial entities. A bank shall note
that this method does not follow corresponding deduction approach
i.e., all deductions shall be made from the CET 1 capital even though,
the investments of such entities are in the AT 1 / Tier 2 capital of the
investing bank.
(8) When returns of the investors of the capital issues are counter guaranteed by the
bank, such investments shall not be considered as regulatory capital for the
purpose of capital adequacy.
Explanation - Certain investors such as Employee Pension Funds subscribe to
regulatory capital issues of commercial banks concerned and these funds enjoy
the counter guarantee by the bank concerned in respect of returns. Such
investments shall not be considered as regulatory capital.
64

(9) Net unrealised gains arising on fair valuation of Level 3 financial instruments
The net unrealised gains arising on fair valuation of Level 3 financial instruments
(including derivatives) shall be deducted from CET 1 capital.
65

Chapter III
Calculation of risk weighted assets (RWAs)
19. Market Risk and Operational Risk capital charges shall not be currently
applicable for a bank.
A Capital charge for Credit Risk
A.1 General
20. A bank shall follow the standardised approach for computing the capital charge
for credit risk. Under this approach, a bank shall rely upon the ratings assigned
by the external credit rating agencies or specific risk weights prescribed in these
directions, as the case may be.
21. The guidelines for risk weight are without prejudice to other applicable guidelines
for Payments Bank.
A.2 Claims on domestic sovereigns
22. The claims on the Central Government shall attract zero risk weight. Central
Government guaranteed claims shall also attract zero risk weight.
23. The investment in State Government securities shall attract zero risk weight.
State Government guaranteed claims shall attract 20 per cent risk weight.
24. The risk weight applicable to claims on Central Government exposures shall also
apply to the claims on the Reserve Bank, and Deposit Insurance and Credit
Guarantee Corporation (DICGC).
25. The above risk weights for both direct claims and guarantee claims shall be
applicable as long as they are classified as ‘standard’ / performing assets. Where
these sovereign exposures are classified as non-performing, they shall attract
risk weights as applicable to non-performing investments, which are detailed in
paragraphs 36 to 40.
26. The above risk weights shall be applied if such exposures are denominated in
Indian rupees and also funded in Indian rupees.
Claims on foreign sovereigns and foreign central banks
27. Subject to paragraph 28 below, claims on foreign sovereigns and their central
banks shall attract risk weights as per the rating assigned to those sovereigns
66

and central banks / sovereign and central bank claims, by international rating
agencies as follows:
Table 4: Claims on foreign sovereigns / central banks – risk weights
Standard & Poor’s
AAA to AA A BBB BB to B Below B Unrated
(S&P) / Fitch ratings
Moody’s ratings Aaa to Aa A Baa Ba to B Below B Unrated
Risk weight (%) 0 20 50 100 150 100
A.3 Claims on public sector entities (PSEs)
28. Claims on domestic PSEs shall be risk weighted as claims on corporates given
in paragraphs 33 to 35.
29. Claims on foreign PSEs shall be risk weighted as per the rating assigned by the
international rating agencies as under:
Table 5: Claims on foreign PSEs – risk weights
S&P / Fitch ratings AAA to AA A BBB to BB Below BB Unrated
Moody’s ratings Aaa to Aa A Baa to Ba Below Ba Unrated
Risk weight (%) 20 50 100 150 100
A.4 Claims on Multilateral Development Banks (MDBs), Bank for International
Settlements (BIS) and International Monetary Fund (IMF)
30. Claims on the BIS, the IMF and the following eligible MDBs evaluated by the
Basel Committee on Banking Supervision (BCBS) shall be treated as claims on
scheduled banks meeting the minimum capital adequacy requirements and
assigned a uniform twenty per cent risk weight:
(i) World Bank Group: IBRD and IFC,
(ii) Asian Development Bank,
(iii) African Development Bank,
(iv) European Bank for Reconstruction and Development,
(v) Inter-American Development Bank,
(vi) European Investment Bank,
67

(vii) European Investment Fund,
(viii) Nordic Investment Bank,
(ix) Caribbean Development Bank,
(x) Islamic Development Bank and
(xi) Council of Europe Development Bank
(xii) International Finance Facility for Immunization (IFFIM)
(xiii) Asian Infrastructure Investment Bank (AIIB)
A.5 Claims on banks
31. Investments of a bank in equity and capital instruments of other banks shall not
be treated in terms of paragraph 18 (7) above, but shall be risk-weighted as per
Table 6.1 and 6.2 below, when they satisfy the following conditions:
(i) Investments in capital instruments of banks where the investing bank
holds not more than 10 per cent of the issued common shares of the
investee banks subject to the condition that aggregate of these
investments, together with investments in the capital instruments in
insurance and other financial entities, do not exceed 10 per cent of
Common Equity of the investing bank.
(ii) Equity investments in other banks where the investing bank holds more
than 10 per cent of the issued common shares of the investee banks,
subject to the condition that aggregate of these investments, together with
such investments in insurance and other financial entities, do not exceed
10 per cent of Common Equity of the investing bank.
68

Table 6.1: Claims on banks incorporated in India and foreign bank branches in India
Risk Weights (%)
All Scheduled Banks All Non-Scheduled Banks
(Commercial Banks, Regional Rural (Commercial Banks, Regional Rural
Banks, Local Area Banks, and Co- Banks, Local Area Banks, and Co-
operative Banks) operative Banks)
Level of
CET1 including
applicable CCB
Investment Investment
(%) of the Investments Investments
s referred All s referred All
investee bank referred to in referred to in
to in other to in other
under Basel III / paragraph paragraph
paragraph claims paragraph claims
Total capital of 31(i) 31(i)
31(ii) 31(ii)
other banks
(where
applicable)
1 2 3 4 5 6 7
For banks which are under Basel III Capital Regulations
Applicable 125 % or the 125% or the
Minimum CET1 risk weight as risk weight as
+ (Applicable per the rating per the rating
CCB and above) of the of the
250 20 300 100
instrument or instrument or
counterparty, counterparty,
whichever is whichever is
higher higher
Applicable
Minimum CET1
+ (CCB = 75% 150 300 50 250 350 150
and <100% of
applicable CCB)
Applicable
Minimum CET1
+ (CCB = 50% 250 350 100 350 450 250
and <75% of
applicable CCB)
Applicable
Minimum CET1
Full
+ (CCB = 0% 350 450 150 625 350
deduction*
and <50% of
applicable CCB)
Minimum CET1
less than Full Full
625 625 Full deduction* 625
applicable deduction* deduction*
minimum
For banks which are not under Basel III Capital Regulations
69

Risk Weights (%)
All Scheduled Banks All Non-Scheduled Banks
(Commercial Banks, Regional Rural (Commercial Banks, Regional Rural
Banks, Local Area Banks, and Co- Banks, Local Area Banks, and Co-
operative Banks) operative Banks)
Level of
CET1 including
applicable CCB
Investment Investment
(%) of the Investments Investments
s referred All s referred All
investee bank referred to in referred to in
to in other to in other
under Basel III / paragraph paragraph
paragraph claims paragraph claims
Total capital of 31(i) 31(i)
31(ii) 31(ii)
other banks
(where
applicable)
1 2 3 4 5 6 7
9 and above 100 % or the 250 20 Higher of 100 300 100
risk weight as % or the risk
per the rating weight as per
of the the rating of
instrument or the instrument
counterparty, or
whichever is counterparty,
higher whichever is
higher
6 to < 9 150 300 50 250 350 150
3 to < 6 250 350 100 350 450 250
0 to < 3 350 450 150 625 Full 350
deduction*
Negative 625 Full 625 Full deduction* Full 625
deduction* deduction*
*The deduction should be made from CET 1 capital
The claims on a foreign bank shall be risk weighted as under as per the ratings
assigned by international rating agencies.
Table 6.2: Claims on foreign banks – risk weights
S&P / Fitch ratings AAA to AA A BBB BB to B Below B Unrated
Moody’s ratings Aaa to Aa A Baa Ba to B Below B Unrated
Risk weight (%) 20 50 50 100 150 50
70

A.6 Claims on primary dealers
32. Claims on primary dealers shall be risk weighted in a manner similar to claims
on corporates.
A.7 Claims on corporates and non-banking financial companies (NBFCs)
33. Claims on corporates, and exposures to all NBFCs excluding core investment
companies (CICs), shall be risk weighted as per the ratings assigned by the
rating agencies registered with the SEBI and accredited by the Reserve Bank.
Exposures to CICs, rated as well as unrated, shall be risk-weighted at 100 per
cent. Tables 7.1 and 7.2 indicate the risk weight applicable to claims on
corporates and exposures to all NBFCs, excluding CICs.
Explanation - Claims on corporates shall include all exposures other than those
which qualify for inclusion under ‘sovereign’, ‘bank’, ‘non-performing assets’,
specified category addressed separately in these guidelines.
Table 7.1: Long term claims on corporates and NBFCs excluding CICs - risk weights
Domestic rating agencies AAA AA A BBB BB & below Unrated
Risk weight (%) 20 30 50 100 150 100
Table 7.2: Short term claims on Corporates and NBFCs excluding CICs -risk weights
India
Ratings
Acuite
and INFOMERICS
CRISIL Ratings &
Research Valuation
CARE Ratings ICRA Brickwork Research (%)
Private and Rating
Ltd. Limited
Limited Ltd.
(Acuite)
(India
Ratings)
CARE CRISIL ICRA
IND A1+ Brickwork A1+ Acuite A1+ IVR A1+ 20
A1+ A1+ A1+
CRISIL
CARE A1 IND A1 ICRA A1 Brickwork A1 Acuite A1 IVR A1 30
A1
CRISIL
CARE A2 IND A2 ICRA A2 Brickwork A2 Acuite A2 IVR A2 50
A2
CRISIL
CARE A3 IND A3 ICRA A3 Brickwork A3 Acuite A3 IVR A3 100
A3
71

CRISIL
CARE A4 IND A4 ICRA A4 Brickwork A4 Acuite A4
A4 IVR A4 and D 150
& D & D & D & D & D
& D
Unrated Unrated Unrated Unrated Unrated Unrated Unrated 100
Explanations –
(1) No claim on an unrated corporate shall be given a risk weight
preferential to that assigned to its sovereign of incorporation.
(2) Claims on corporates and NBFCs, except CICs, having aggregate
exposure from banking system of more than ₹100 crore which were
rated earlier and subsequently have become unrated shall attract a risk
weight of 150 per cent.
(3) All unrated claims on corporates and NBFCs, except CICs, having
aggregate exposure from banking system of more than ₹200 crore shall
attract a risk weight of 150 per cent.
34. The Reserve Bank may increase the standard risk weight for unrated claims
where a higher risk weight is warranted by the overall default experience. As part
of the supervisory review process, the Reserve Bank may also consider whether
the credit quality of unrated corporate claims held by an individual bank should
warrant a standard risk weight higher than 100 per cent.
35. The claims on non-resident corporates shall be risk weighted as under as per the
ratings assigned by international rating agencies.
Table 8: Claims on non-resident corporates - risk weight mapping for the ratings
assigned by S&P/Fitch/Moody’s Ratings
S&P / Fitch Ratings AAA to AA A BBB to BB Below BB Unrated
Moody’s ratings Aaa to Aa A Baa to Ba Below Ba Unrated
Risk Weight (%) 20 50 100 150 100
Explanations –
(1) Unrated claims having aggregate exposure from banking system of
more than ₹200 crore shall attract a risk weight of 150 per cent.
72

(2) Claims with aggregate exposure from banking system of more than
₹100 crore which were rated earlier and subsequently have become
unrated shall attract a risk weight of 150 per cent.
(3) No claim on an unrated corporate shall be given a risk weight
preferential to that assigned to its sovereign of incorporation.
A.9 Non-Performing Assets (NPAs) (including Non-Performing Investments
(NPIs))
36. The unsecured portion of NPA, net of specific provisions (including partial write-
offs), shall be risk-weighted as follows:
(1) 150 per cent risk weight when specific provisions are less than 20 per cent
of the outstanding amount of the NPA;
(2) 100 per cent risk weight when specific provisions are at least 20 per cent
of the outstanding amount of the NPA;
(3) 50 per cent risk weight when specific provisions are at least 50 per cent of
the outstanding amount of the NPA
37. For computing the level of specific provisions in NPAs for deciding the risk-
weighting, all funded NPA exposures of a single counterparty (without netting the
value of the eligible collateral) shall be reckoned in the denominator.
38. For defining the secured portion of the NPA, eligible collateral shall be the same
as recognised for credit risk mitigation purposes (paragraph 63). Hence, other
forms of collateral like land, buildings, plant, machinery, current assets shall not
be reckoned while computing the secured portion of NPAs for capital adequacy
purposes.
39. In addition to the above, where a NPA is fully secured by the following forms of
collateral that are not recognised for credit risk mitigation purposes, either
independently or along with other eligible collateral, a 100 per cent risk weight
may apply, net of specific provisions, when provisions reach 15 per cent of the
outstanding amount:
(1) Land and building which are valued by an expert valuer and where the
valuation is not more than three years old, and
73

(2) Plant and machinery in good working condition at a value not higher
than the depreciated value as reflected in the audited balance sheet of
the counterparty, which is not older than eighteen months.
40. The above collaterals (mentioned in paragraph 39) shall be recognised only
where the bank is having clear title to realise the sale proceeds thereof and can
appropriate the same towards the amounts due to the bank. The bank’s title to
the collateral shall be well documented. These forms of collaterals are not
recognised anywhere else under the standardised approach.
A.10 Specified categories
41. ‘Capital market exposures’ shall attract a 125 per cent risk weight or risk weight
warranted by external rating (or lack of it) of the counterparty, whichever is
higher.
Explanation - The applicable risk weight for banking book exposure for a bank’s
equity investments in other banks / financial institutions etc. are covered under
paragraphs 31.
42. The exposure to capital instruments issued by NBFCs which are not deducted
and are required to be risk weighted in terms of paragraph 18 (7)(ii)(b) shall be
risk weighted at 125 per cent or as per the external ratings, whichever is higher.
The exposure to equity instruments issued by NBFCs which are not deducted
and are required to be risk weighted in terms of paragraph 18 (7) (ii)(c) shall be
risk weighted at 250 per cent. The claims (other than in the form of capital
instruments of investee companies) on all NBFCs excluding CIC shall be risk
weighted as per the ratings assigned by the rating agencies registered with the
SEBI and accredited by the Reserve Bank, in a manner similar to that of
corporates. The claims on CICs, rated and unrated, shall be risk-weighted at 100
per cent.
43. All investments in the paid-up equity of non-financial entities which exceed 10
per cent of the issued common share capital of the issuing entity or where the
entity is an unconsolidated affiliate as defined in paragraph 18 (7)(ii)(c)(i) shall
receive a risk weight of 1250 per cent. Equity investments equal to or below 10
per cent paid-up equity of such investee companies shall be assigned a 125 per
74

cent risk weight or the risk weight as warranted by rating or lack of it, whichever
higher.
44. The exposure to capital instruments issued by financial entities (other than banks
and NBFCs) which are not deducted and are required to be risk weighted in terms
of paragraph 18 (7)(ii)(b) shall be risk weighted at 125 per cent or as per the
external ratings whichever is higher. The exposure to equity instruments issued
by financial entities (other than banks and NBFCs) which are not deducted and
are required to be risk weighted in terms of paragraph 18 (7)(ii)(c) shall be risk
weighted at 250 per cent.
45. Bank’s investments in the non-equity capital eligible instruments of other banks
should be risk weighted as prescribed in paragraph 31.
A.11 Other Assets
46. Loans and advances to a bank’s own staff which are fully covered by
superannuation benefits and / or mortgage of flat / house shall attract a 20 per
cent risk weight. Since flat / house is not an eligible collateral and since a bank
normally recovers the dues by adjusting the superannuation benefits only at the
time of cessation from service, the concessional risk weight shall be applied
without any adjustment of the outstanding amount. In case a bank is holding
eligible collateral in respect of amounts due from a staff member, the outstanding
amount in respect of that staff member shall be adjusted to the extent
permissible, as indicated in paragraphs 56 to 81.
47. Other loans and advances of up to ₹7.5 crore to bank’s own staff shall attract a
75 per cent risk weight.
48. All other assets shall attract a uniform risk weight of 100 per cent.
A.12 Off-balance sheet items
49. The total risk weighted off-balance sheet credit exposure shall be calculated as
the sum of the risk-weighted amount of the market related and non-market
related off-balance sheet items. The risk-weighted amount of an off-balance
sheet item that gives rise to credit exposure shall be calculated by the following
process:
75

(1) the notional amount of the transaction shall be converted into a credit
equivalent amount, by multiplying the amount by the specified credit
conversion factor (CCF) or by applying the current exposure method; and
(2) the resulting credit equivalent amount shall be multiplied by the risk weight
applicable to the counterparty or to the purpose for which the bank has
exposure or the type of asset, whichever is higher.
50. Where the off-balance sheet item is secured by eligible collateral or guarantee,
the credit risk mitigation directions detailed in paragraphs 56 to 81 shall be
applied.
51. Non-market-related off-balance sheet items
(1) The credit equivalent amount in relation to a non-market related off-balance
sheet item shall be determined by multiplying the contracted amount of that
particular transaction by the relevant CCF as elaborated in Table 9.
(2) Where the non-market related off-balance sheet item is an undrawn or
partially undrawn facility, the amount of undrawn commitment to be included
in calculating the off-balance sheet non-market related exposures is the
maximum unused portion of the commitment that could be drawn during the
remaining period to maturity. Any drawn portion of a commitment forms a part
of bank's on-balance sheet credit exposure.
(3) In the case of irrevocable commitments to provide off-balance sheet facilities,
the original maturity shall be measured from the commencement of the
commitment until the time the associated facility expires. Such commitments
should be assigned the lower of the two applicable credit conversion factors.
(4) The CCFs for non-market related off-balance sheet transactions are as
under:
Table 9: CCF - non-market related off-balance sheet items
Sr.
Instruments CCF (%)
No.
Sale and repurchase agreement and asset sales with recourse, where the
1. 100
credit risk remains with the bank.
76

Sr.
Instruments CCF (%)
No.
(These items are to be risk weighted according to the type of asset and not
according to the type of counterparty with whom the transaction has been
entered into.)
Partly paid shares and securities, which represent commitments with certain
drawdown.
2. (These items are to be risk weighted according to the type of asset and not 100
according to the type of counterparty with whom the transaction has been
entered into.)
Lending of banks’ securities or posting of securities as collateral by banks,
including instances where these arise out of repo style transactions (i.e.,
3. 100
repurchase / reverse repurchase and securities lending / securities
borrowing transactions)
4. Commitments with certain drawdown 100
Other commitments to staff (e.g., formal standby facilities and credit lines)
with an original maturity of
a) up to one year 20
b) over one year 50
Similar commitments to staff that are unconditionally cancellable at any time
by the bank without prior notice or that effectively provide for automatic
0
5.
cancellation due to deterioration in a borrower’s credit worthiness.
Explanation: 0 percent CCF shall be subject to a bank demonstrating that it
is actually able to cancel any undrawn commitments in case of deterioration
in a borrower’s credit worthiness failing which the credit conversion factor
applicable to such facilities which are not cancellable shall apply. The bank’s
compliance to these guidelines shall be assessed under Supervisory Review
and Evaluation Process under Pillar 2 of the Reserve Bank.
52. Treatment of total Counterparty Credit Risk
(1) The total capital charge for counterparty credit risk shall cover the default risk.
Counterparty risk may arise in the context of OTC derivatives, exchange traded
derivatives, and SFTs.
Explanation: Instruments that give rise to counterparty risk generally exhibit the
following abstract characteristics.
(i) The transactions generate a current exposure or market value.
77

(ii) The transactions have an associated random future market value based
on market variables.
(iii) The transactions generate an exchange of payments or an exchange of a
financial instrument against payment.
(iv) Collateral may be used to mitigate risk exposure and is inherent in the
nature of some transactions.
(v) Short-term financing may be a primary objective in that the transactions
mostly consist of an exchange of one asset for another (cash or securities)
for a relatively short period of time, usually for the business purpose of
financing. The two sides of the transactions are not the result of separate
decisions but form an indivisible whole to accomplish a defined objective.
(vi) Netting may be used to mitigate the risk.
(vii) Positions are frequently valued (most commonly on a daily basis),
according to market variables.
(viii) Remargining may be employed.
The ‘capital charge for default risk’ shall be calculated using current exposure
method as explained in paragraph 52(2). The Current Exposure method is
applicable only to OTC derivatives. The counterparty risk on account of SFTs is
covered in paragraph 66 of this Master Direction.
(2) Default risk capital charge for counterparty credit risk (CCR)
The exposure amount for the purpose of computing default risk capital charge
for CCR shall be calculated using the Current Exposure Method (CEM) described
as under:
(i) The credit equivalent amount of a market related off-balance sheet
transaction calculated using the current exposure method is the sum of
current credit exposure and potential future credit exposure of these
contracts. For this purpose, credit equivalent amount shall be adjusted for
legally valid eligible financial collaterals in accordance with the provisions
of paragraphs 56 to 81 – Credit Risk Mitigation Techniques – collateralised
transactions.
78

(ii) While computing the credit exposure, banks may exclude ‘sold options’ that
are outside netting and margin agreements, provided the entire premium /
fee or any other form of income is received / realised.
Explanation - For ‘sold options’ (outside netting and margin agreements)
where the premium / fee or any other form of income is not fully received /
realised, the add-on shall be capped to the amount of unpaid premia.
(iii) Current credit exposure is the sum of the positive mark-to-market value of
these contracts. The CEM requires periodical calculation of the current
credit exposure by marking these contracts to market, thus capturing the
current credit exposure.
(iv) Potential future credit exposure shall be determined by multiplying the
notional principal amount of each of these contracts irrespective of whether
the contract has a zero, positive or negative mark-to-market value by the
relevant add-on factor indicated below according to the residual maturity of
the instrument.
1Table 10: Add-on factors for market-related off-balance sheet items
Add-on factor (%)
Exchange Rate Contracts
and Gold
One year or less 1.00
Over one year to five years 5.00
Over five years 7.50
Note -
(a) For contracts with multiple exchanges of principal, the add-on factors
shall be multiplied by the number of remaining payments in the
contract.
(b) For contracts that are structured to settle outstanding exposure
following specified payment dates and where the terms are reset such
that the market value of the contract is zero on these specified dates,
1
Substituted with effect from March 10, 2026 vide Reserve Bank of India (Payments Banks - Prudential Norms on
Capital Adequacy) Amendment Directions, 2026 dated March 10, 2026.
79

the residual maturity shall be set equal to the time until the next reset
date.
(c) Potential future exposures shall be based on ‘effective’ rather than
’apparent notional amounts’. In the event that the ‘stated notional
amount’ is leveraged or enhanced by the structure of the transaction,
a bank shall use the ‘effective notional amount’ when determining
potential future exposure. For example, a stated notional amount of
USD 1 million with payments based on an internal rate of two times
the BPLR / Base Rate shall have an effective notional amount of
USD 2 million.
(d) 2Add-on factors as per Table 10 shall be applicable to all outstanding
CCR exposures.
(v) When effective bilateral netting contracts as specified in paragraph 54 are
in place, RC shall be the net replacement cost and the add-on shall be A
Net
as calculated below:
(a) Credit exposure on bilaterally netted forward transactions shall be
calculated as the sum of the net mark-to-market replacement cost, if
positive, plus an add-on based on the notional underlying principal.
The add-on for netted transactions (A ) shall equal the weighted
Net
average of the gross add-on (A ) and the gross add-on adjusted
Gross
by the ratio of net current replacement cost to gross current
replacement cost (NGR). This is expressed through the following
formula:
A = 0.4 * A + 0.6 * NGR · A
Net Gross Gross
where:
NGR = level of net replacement cost / level of gross replacement
cost for transactions subject to legally enforceable netting
agreements. A bank shall calculate NGR on a counterparty-by-
2 Inserted with effect from March 10, 2026 vide Reserve Bank of India (Payments Banks - Prudential Norms on
Capital Adequacy) Amendment Directions, 2026 dated March 10, 2026.
80

counterparty basis for all transactions that are subject to legally
enforceable netting agreements.
A = sum of individual add-on amounts (calculated by
Gross
multiplying the notional principal amount by the appropriate add-
on factors set out in Table 10) of all transactions subject to legally
enforceable netting agreements with one counterparty.
(b) For calculating potential future credit exposure to a netting
counterparty for forward foreign exchange contracts and other similar
contracts in which the notional principal amount is equivalent to cash
flows, the notional principal shall be the net receipts falling due on
each value date in each currency. The reason for this is that offsetting
contracts in the same currency maturing on the same date will have
lower potential future exposure as well as lower current exposure.
(c) Explanations regarding Bilateral Netting under Current Exposure
Method -
(i) To avail the benefit of bilateral netting for computation of
regulatory capital requirement for derivative transactions, a bank
shall have an effective bilateral netting contract or agreement
with each counterparty, as specified in paragraph 54.
(ii) Bilateral Netting as per this paragraph, shall be applicable for all
OTC derivative exposures to a counterparty, arising from the
netting set covered by a qualifying bilateral netting agreement,
subject to meeting the criterion prescribed for effective bilateral
netting contracts as specified in paragraph 54.
(iii) For such exposures as at (ii) above, Replacement Cost shall be
Net Replacement Cost and Potential Future Exposure will be
A . A shall be calculated using gross add-on (A ) and
Net Net Gross
NGR. Gross add-on (A ), in turn, shall be calculated as sum
Gross
of individual add-on amounts (add-on factor multiplied by
notional principal amount).
81

(iv) However, while calculating add-on amounts in case of forward
foreign exchange contracts or other similar contracts where
notional principal amount is equivalent to cash flows, the notional
principal amount shall be taken as the net receipts falling due on
each value date in each currency.
(v) The term ‘product categories’ in the definition of cross-product
netting refers to (a) OTC derivative transactions, and (b) repo /
reverse repo. Cross-Product Netting is not permitted for capital
adequacy as well as leverage ratio measure. Thus, all eligible
OTC derivative transactions with a counterparty shall form part
of one netting set and all eligible OTC repo / reverse repo
transactions with that counterparty shall form part of a separate
netting set.
(vi) Within a netting set, trades with a counterparty across maturities
shall be netted and the risk weight corresponding to the worst
applicable long-term rating of the counterparty shall be applied.
Collateral can be netted against both replacement cost and PFE
for capital adequacy purposes. The exposure computation under
the Large Exposure Framework shall be as per this Master
Direction. Regarding presentation in the financial statements, a
bank may refer to Guidance Note on Accounting for Derivative
Contracts (Revised 2021) issued by the Institute of Chartered
Accountants of India (ICAI). The Guidance Note (paragraph 64)
mandates that all amounts presented in the financial statements
should be gross amounts.
(vii) The provisioning requirement for standard assets shall be
applicable on the credit exposures arising from derivative
contracts. For this purpose, credit exposure of derivative
contracts shall be computed as per this Master Direction.
Accordingly, for a netting set, standard asset provisions on
derivative exposures shall be computed based on net
replacement cost instead of current marked to market value of
82

the contract (i.e., replacement cost), subject to compliance with
the conditions prescribed for ‘effective bilateral netting contracts’
in paragraph 54. The CEM, as provided in this Master Direction,
shall be applicable for measurement of credit exposure of
derivatives products for the purpose of Reserve Bank of India
(Payments Banks – Concentration Risk Management)
Directions, 2025.
(3) Calculation of the aggregate CCR
The total CCR capital charge for the bank shall be determined as the sum of all
counterparties of the CEM based capital charge determined as per paragraph
52(2).
(4) Capital requirement for exposures to CCPs
Scope of application
(i) Exposures to CCPs arising from OTC derivatives transactions, exchange
traded derivatives transactions, and SFTs shall be subject to the
counterparty credit risk treatment as indicated in the paragraphs below.
(ii) Exposures arising from the settlement of cash transactions (equities, fixed
income, spot FX, commodity, etc.) shall not be subject to this treatment.
The settlement of cash transactions shall be as per the treatment described
in paragraph 53.
(iii) When the clearing member-to-client leg of an exchange traded derivatives
transaction is conducted under a bilateral agreement, both the client bank
and the clearing member shall capitalise that transaction as an OTC
derivative.
(iv) For the purpose of capital adequacy framework, CCPs shall be considered
a financial institution. Accordingly, a bank’s investments in the capital of
CCPs shall be treated in terms of paragraph 18.
(v) Capital requirements shall be dependent on the nature of a CCP, i.e.,
whether it is a QCCP or a non-Qualifying CCP.
(a) Regardless of whether a CCP is classified as a QCCP or not, a bank
shall maintain adequate capital for its exposures. Under Pillar 2, a
83

bank shall consider whether it might need to hold capital in excess of
the minimum capital requirements if, for example, (i) its dealings with
a CCP give rise to more risky exposures, or (ii) where, given the
context of that bank’s dealings, it is unclear that the CCP meets the
definition of a QCCP.
(b) A bank may be required to hold additional capital against its
exposures to QCCPs via Pillar 2, if in the opinion of the Reserve Bank,
it is necessary to do so.
(c) Where the bank is acting as a clearing member, the bank shall assess
through appropriate scenario analysis and stress testing whether the
level of capital held against exposures to a CCP adequately
addresses the inherent risks of those transactions. This assessment
shall include potential future or contingent exposures resulting from
future drawings on default fund commitments, and / or from secondary
commitments to take over or replace offsetting transactions from
clients of another clearing member in case of this clearing member
defaulting or becoming insolvent.
(d) A bank shall monitor and report to senior management and the
appropriate committee of the Board (e.g., Risk Management
Committee) on a regular basis (quarterly or at more frequent intervals)
all of its exposures to CCPs, including exposures arising from trading
through a CCP and exposures arising from CCP membership
obligations such as default fund contributions.
(e) Unless the Department of Regulation, Reserve Bank requires
otherwise, the trades with a former QCCP may continue to be
capitalised as though they are with a QCCP for a period not exceeding
three months from the date it ceases to qualify as a QCCP. After that
time, the bank’s exposures with such a central counterparty shall be
capitalised according to rules applicable for non-QCCP.
84

(5) Exposures to QCCPs
(i) Trade exposures
Clearing member exposures to QCCPs
(a) 3Where a bank acts as a clearing member of a QCCP for its own
purposes, a risk weight of 2 per cent shall be applied to the bank’s
trade exposure to the QCCP in respect of OTC derivatives
transactions, exchange traded derivatives transactions, and SFTs.
Where the clearing member (bank) offers clearing services to clients,
the 2 per cent risk weight also applies to the clearing member’s (bank)
trade exposure to the QCCP that arises in cases where the clearing
member (bank) is obligated to reimburse the client for any losses on
such transactions in the event that the QCCP defaults.
Provided that, a clearing member (bank) is not required to maintain
capital for such transactions, for the trade exposure to the QCCP, if it
is not obligated to reimburse the client for such losses, provided the
bank obtains and maintains an independent, written, and reasoned
legal opinion that it is protected from any such liability in case of QCCP
defaults.
(b) The exposure amount for such trade exposure shall be calculated in
accordance with the CEM for derivatives and rules as applicable for
capital adequacy for repo / reverse repo-style transactions (please
refer to paragraph 66).
(c) Where settlement is legally enforceable on a net basis in an event of
default and regardless of whether the counterparty is insolvent or
bankrupt, the total replacement cost of all contracts relevant to the
trade exposure determination shall be calculated as a net replacement
3 Substituted with effect from March 10, 2026 vide Reserve Bank of India (Payments Banks - Prudential Norms on
Capital Adequacy) Amendment Directions, 2026 dated March 10, 2026.
85

cost if the applicable close-out netting sets meet the requirements set
out in paragraph 54 of these guidelines.
Note - The trade exposure (i.e., both replacement cost and potential
future exposure) shall be computed on net basis, provided other
conditions stated in this paragraph 52(5) are met.
(d) A bank shall demonstrate that the conditions mentioned in paragraph
54 are fulfilled on a regular basis by obtaining independent and
reasoned legal opinion as regards legal certainty of netting of
exposures to QCCPs. A bank shall also obtain from the QCCPs, the
legal opinion taken by the respective QCCPs on the legal certainty of
their major activities such as settlement finality, netting, collateral
arrangements (including margin arrangements); default procedures
etc.
Clearing member exposures to clients
(e) The clearing member shall always capitalise its exposure to clients as
bilateral trades, irrespective of whether the clearing member
guarantees the trade or acts as an intermediary between the client
and the QCCP. However, to recognise the shorter close-out period for
cleared transactions, a clearing member may capitalise the exposure
to its clients by multiplying the EAD by a scalar which is not less than
0.71.
Client bank exposures to clearing member
(f) Where a bank is a client of the clearing member, and enters into a
transaction with the clearing member acting as a financial
intermediary (i.e., the clearing member completes an offsetting
transaction with a QCCP), the client’s exposures to the clearing
member shall receive the treatment applicable to a clearing member’s
exposure to QCCPs (as described in sub-para (a) to (d) above) if
following conditions are met:
(i) The offsetting transactions are identified by the QCCP as client
transactions and collateral to support them is held by the QCCP
86

and / or the clearing member, as applicable, under arrangements
that prevent any losses to the client due to:
(a) the default or insolvency of the clearing member;
(b) the default or insolvency of the clearing member’s other
clients; and
(c) the joint default or insolvency of the clearing member and
any of its other clients.
(ii) The client bank shall obtain an independent, written, and
reasoned legal opinion which concludes that, in the event of
legal challenge, the relevant courts and administrative
authorities would find that the client would bear no losses on
account of the insolvency of an intermediary under the relevant
law, including:
(a) the law(s) applicable to client bank, clearing member and
QCCP;
(b) the law of the jurisdiction(s) of the foreign countries in which
the client bank, clearing member or QCCP are located;
(c) the law that governs the individual transactions and
collateral; and
(d) the law that governs any contract or agreement necessary
to meet this condition at (f)(i) above.
(iii) Relevant laws, regulations, rules, contractual, or administrative
arrangements provide that the offsetting transactions with the
defaulted or insolvent clearing member are highly likely to
continue to be indirectly transacted through the QCCP, or by the
QCCP, should the clearing member default or become insolvent.
In such circumstances, the client positions and collateral with the
QCCP shall be transferred at the market value unless the client
requests to close out the position at the market value. If relevant
laws, regulations, rules, contractual, or administrative
agreements provide that trades are highly likely to be ported, this
87

condition shall be considered to be met. If there is a clear
precedent for transactions being ported at a QCCP and intention
of the participants is to continue this practice, then these factors
shall be considered while assessing if trades are highly likely to
be ported. The fact that QCCP documentation does not prohibit
client trades from being ported shall not be sufficient to conclude
that they are highly likely to be ported. Other evidence such as
the criteria mentioned in this paragraph is necessary to make
this claim.
(g) Where a client is not protected from losses in the case that the clearing
member and another client of the clearing member jointly default or
become jointly insolvent, but all other conditions mentioned above are
met and the concerned CCP is a QCCP, a risk weight of 4 per cent
shall apply to the client’s exposure to the clearing member.
(h) Where the client bank does not meet the requirements in the above
paragraphs, the bank shall be required to capitalise its exposure to
the clearing member as a bilateral trade.
(i) Under situations in which a client enters into a transaction with the
QCCP with a clearing member guaranteeing its performance, the
capital requirements shall be based on the provisions herein.
Treatment of posted collateral
(j) In all cases, any assets or collateral posted shall, from the perspective
of the bank posting such collateral, receive the risk weights that
otherwise applies to such assets or collateral under the capital
adequacy framework, regardless of the fact that such assets have
been posted as collateral. Where assets or collateral of a clearing
member or client are posted with a QCCP or a clearing member and
are not held in a bankruptcy remote manner, the bank posting such
assets or collateral shall also recognise credit risk based upon the
88

assets or collateral being exposed to risk of loss based upon the
creditworthiness of the entity holding such assets or collateral.
Provided that, where the entity holding such assets or collateral is the
QCCP, a risk weight of 2 per cent applies to collateral included in the
definition of trade exposures. The relevant risk weight of the QCCP
shall apply to assets or collateral posted for other purposes.
(k) Collateral posted by the clearing member (including cash, securities,
other pledged assets, and excess initial or variation margin, also
called over-collateralisation), that is held by a custodian, and is
bankruptcy remote from the QCCP, is not subject to a capital
requirement for counterparty credit risk exposure to such bankruptcy
remote custodian.
Explanation - The word ‘custodian’ may include a trustee, agent,
pledgee, secured creditor, or any other person that holds property in
a way that does not give such person a beneficial interest in such
property and shall not result in such property being subject to legally-
enforceable claims by such persons, creditors, or to a court-ordered
stay of the return of such property, should such person become
insolvent or bankrupt.
(l) Collateral posted by a client, that is held by a custodian, and is
bankruptcy remote from the QCCP, the clearing member, and other
clients, is not subject to a capital requirement for counterparty credit
risk. If the collateral is held at the QCCP on a client’s behalf and is not
held on a bankruptcy remote basis, a 2 per cent risk weight shall apply
to the collateral if the conditions laid down in the preceding provisions
on ‘client bank exposures to clearing members’ are met. A risk weight
of 4 per cent shall apply if a client is not protected from losses in the
case that the clearing member and another client of the clearing
member jointly default or become jointly insolvent, but all other
89

conditions laid down in the preceding provisions on ‘client bank
exposures to clearing members’ are met.
(m) If a clearing member collects collateral from a client for client cleared
trades and passes it on to the QCCP, the clearing member may
recognise this collateral for both the QCCP - clearing member leg and
the clearing member - client leg of the client cleared trade. Therefore,
initial margins (IMs) as posted by clients to clearing members mitigate
the exposure the clearing member has against these clients.
(ii) Default fund exposures to QCCPs
(a) Where a default fund is shared between products or types of business
with settlement risk only (e.g., equities and bonds) and products or
types of business which give rise to counterparty credit risk, i.e., OTC
derivatives, exchange traded derivatives, or SFTs, all of the default
fund contributions shall receive the risk weight determined according
to the formulae and methodology specified hereinafter, without
apportioning to different classes or types of business or products.
(b) However, where the default fund contributions from clearing members
are segregated by product types and only accessible for specific
product types, the capital requirements for those default fund
exposures determined according to the formulae and methodology
specified hereinafter shall be calculated for each specific product
giving rise to counterparty credit risk. In case the QCCP’s prefunded
own resources are shared among product types, the QCCP shall have
to allocate those funds to each of the calculations, in proportion to the
respective product specific exposure, i.e., EAD.
(c) A clearing member bank shall capitalise its exposures arising from
default fund contributions to a qualifying CCP by applying the following
methodology:
(i) A clearing member bank shall apply a risk weight of 1250 per
cent to its default fund exposures to the QCCP, subject to an
overall cap on the RWA from all its exposures to the QCCP (i.e.,
including trade exposures) equal to 20 per cent of the trade
90

exposures to the QCCP. More specifically, the RWA for both
bank i’s trade and default fund exposures to each QCCP are
equal to:
Min {(2% * TE + 1250% * DF); (20% * TE)}
i i i
Where;
TE is bank i’s trade exposure to the QCCP; and
i
DF is bank i's pre-funded contribution to the QCCP's
i
default fund.
Note - The 2 per cent risk weight on trade exposures does not
apply additionally, as it is included in the equation.
(6) Exposures to non-qualifying CCPs
(i) A bank shall apply the Standardised Approach for credit risk according to
the category of the counterparty, to its trade exposure to a non-qualifying
CCP.
Note - In cases where a CCP is to be considered as a non-QCCP and the
exposure is to be reckoned on CCP, the applicable risk weight shall be
according to the ratings assigned to the CCPs.
(ii) A bank shall apply a risk weight of 1250 per cent to its default fund
contributions to a non-qualifying CCP.
(iii) For the purpose of this paragraph, the default fund contributions of such a
bank shall include both the funded and the unfunded contributions which
are liable to be paid should the CCP so require. Where there is a liability for
unfunded contributions (i.e., unlimited binding commitments) the Reserve
Bank shall determine in its Pillar 2 assessments the amount of unfunded
commitments to which 1250 per cent risk weight shall apply.
53. Failed transactions
(1) With regard to unsettled securities and foreign exchange transactions, a bank is
exposed to counterparty credit risk from trade date, irrespective of the booking
or the accounting of the transaction. A bank shall develop, implement and
improve systems for tracking and monitoring the credit risk exposure arising from
91

unsettled transactions as appropriate for producing management information that
facilitates action on a timely basis.
(2) A bank shall closely monitor securities and foreign exchange transactions that
have failed, starting from the day they fail, for producing management information
that facilitates action on a timely basis. Failed transactions give rise to risk of
delayed settlement or delivery.
(3) Failure of transactions settled through a delivery-versus-payment (DvP) system,
providing simultaneous exchanges of securities for cash, expose a bank to a risk
of loss on the difference between the transaction valued at the agreed settlement
price and the transaction valued at current market price (i.e., positive current
exposure). Failed transactions where cash is paid without receipt of the
corresponding receivable (securities, foreign currencies, or gold) or, conversely,
deliverables were delivered without receipt of the corresponding cash payment
(non-DvP, or free delivery) expose a bank to a risk of loss on the full amount of
cash paid or deliverables delivered. Therefore, a capital charge is required for
failed transactions and shall be calculated as under for all failed transactions,
including transactions through recognised clearing houses and central
counterparties but excluding repurchase, reverse-repurchase agreements, and
securities lending and borrowing that have failed to settle.
(4) For DvP Transactions - If the payments have not taken place five business days
after the settlement date, a bank shall calculate a capital charge by multiplying
the positive current exposure of the transaction by the appropriate factor as
under.
Table 11: Capital charge for DvP transactions
Number of working days after Corresponding factor
the agreed settlement date (in per cent)
From 5 to 15 9
From 16 o 30 50
From 31 to 45 75
46 or more 100
(5) For non-DvP transactions (free deliveries) after the first contractual payment /
delivery leg, the bank that has made the payment shall treat its exposure as a
loan if the second leg has not been received by the end of the business day. If
92

the dates when two payment legs are made are the same according to the time
zones where each payment is made, it is deemed that they are settled on the
same day. For example, if a bank in Tokyo transfers Yen on day X (Japan
Standard Time) and receives corresponding US Dollar via CHIPS on day X (US
Eastern Standard Time), the settlement is deemed to take place on the same
value date. A bank shall compute the capital requirement using the counterparty
risk weights prescribed in these guidelines. However, if five business days after
the second contractual payment / delivery date the second leg has not yet
effectively taken place, the bank that has made the first payment leg shall receive
a risk weight of 1250 per cent on the full amount of the value transferred plus
replacement cost, if any. This treatment shall apply until the second payment /
delivery leg is effectively made.
54. Requirements for recognition of net replacement cost in close-out netting sets
(1) For repo-style transactions
(i) The effects of bilateral netting agreements covering repo-style transactions
shall be recognised on a counterparty-by-counterparty basis if the
agreements are legally enforceable in each relevant jurisdiction upon the
occurrence of an event of default and regardless of whether the
counterparty is insolvent or bankrupt. In addition, netting agreements shall:
(a) provide the non-defaulting party the right to terminate and close-out in
a timely manner all transactions under the agreement upon an event
of default, including in the event of insolvency or bankruptcy of the
counterparty;
(b) provide for the netting of gains and losses on transactions (including
the value of any collateral) terminated and closed out under it so that
a single net amount is owed by one party to the other;
(c) allow for the prompt liquidation or setoff of collateral upon the event of
default; and
(d) be, together with the rights arising from the provisions required in (a)
to (c) above, legally enforceable in each relevant jurisdiction upon the
93

occurrence of an event of default and regardless of the counterparty's
insolvency or bankruptcy.
(e) Netting across positions in the banking and trading book shall only be
recognised when the netted transactions fulfil the following conditions:
(i) All transactions are marked to market daily; and
(ii) The collateral instruments used in the transactions are
recognised as eligible financial collateral in the banking book.
Note - The holding period for the haircuts shall depend as in other
repo-style transactions on the frequency of margining
(2) For derivatives transactions
(i) A bank may net transactions subject to novation under which any obligation
between a bank and its counterparty to deliver a given currency on a given
value date is automatically amalgamated with all other obligations for the
same currency and value date, legally substituting one single amount for
the previous gross obligations.
(ii) A bank may also net transactions subject to any legally valid form of
bilateral netting not covered in sub-paragraph (2)(i) above, including other
forms of novation.
(iii) In both cases (i) and (ii), a bank shall need to satisfy that it has:
(a) A netting contract or agreement with the counterparty which creates a
single legal obligation, covering all included transactions, such that
the bank shall have either a claim to receive or obligation to pay only
the net sum of the positive and negative mark-to-market values of
included individual transactions in the event a counterparty fails to
perform due to any of the following: default, bankruptcy, liquidation, or
similar circumstances.
Note - Membership agreement together with relevant netting
provisions contained in QCCP’s bye-laws, rules, and regulations are
a type of netting agreement.
94

(b) Written and reasoned legal opinions that, in the event of a legal
challenge, the relevant courts and administrative authorities shall find
the bank's exposure to be such a net amount under:
(i) The law of the jurisdiction in which the counterparty is chartered
and, if the foreign branch of a counterparty is involved, then also
under the law of the jurisdiction in which the branch is located;
(ii) The law that governs the individual transactions; and
(iii) The law that governs any contract or agreement necessary to
effect the netting.
(c) Procedures in place to ensure that the legal characteristics of netting
arrangements are kept under review in the light of possible changes
in relevant law.
(iv) Contracts containing walkaway clauses shall not be eligible for netting for
the purpose of calculating capital requirements under these Directions. A
walkaway clause is a provision which permits a non-defaulting counterparty
to make only limited payments or no payment at all, to the estate of a
defaulter, even if the defaulter is a net creditor.
B External credit assessments
55. The regulatory instructions for external credit assessments, as applicable to
Small Finance Banks as per the ‘Reserve Bank of India (Small Finance Banks –
Prudential Norms on Capital Adequacy) Directions, 2025’, shall mutatis mutandis
apply to Payments Banks.
C Credit risk mitigation
C.1 General principles
56. Credit risk mitigation (CRM) approaches as detailed herein shall be applicable to
the banking book exposures of a bank.
57. The general principles applicable to use of CRM techniques are as under:
(1) No transaction in which CRM techniques are used shall receive a higher
capital requirement than an otherwise identical transaction where such
techniques are not used.
95

(2) The effects of CRM shall not be double counted. Therefore, no additional
supervisory recognition of CRM for regulatory capital purposes shall be
granted on claims for which an issue-specific rating is used that already
reflects that CRM.
(3) Principal-only ratings shall not be allowed within the CRM framework.
(4) While the use of CRM techniques reduces or transfers credit risk, it
simultaneously may increase other risks (residual risks). Residual risks
include legal, operational, liquidity and market risks. Therefore, it is imperative
that a bank employ robust procedures and processes to control these risks,
including strategy, consideration of the underlying credit, valuation, policies
and procedures, systems, control of roll-off risks, and management of
concentration risk arising from the bank’s use of CRM techniques and its
interaction with the bank’s overall credit risk profile. Where these risks are not
adequately controlled, the Reserve Bank may impose additional capital
charges or take other supervisory actions.
C.2 Legal certainty
58. In order for a bank to obtain capital relief for any use of CRM techniques, the
following minimum standards for legal documentation shall be met. All
documentation used in collateralised transactions and guarantees shall be
binding on all parties and legally enforceable in all relevant jurisdictions. A bank
shall have conducted sufficient legal review, which shall be well documented, to
verify this requirement. Such verification shall have a well-founded legal basis for
reaching the conclusion about the binding nature and enforceability of the
documents. A bank shall also undertake such further review as necessary to
ensure continuing enforceability.
C.3 Credit risk mitigation (CRM) techniques - collateralised transactions
59. A collateralised transaction is one in which:
(1) a bank has an exposure, and that exposure is hedged in whole or in part by
collateral posted by a counterparty or by a third party on behalf of the
counterparty. Here, ‘counterparty’ is used to denote a party to whom a bank
has an on- or off-balance sheet exposure.
96

(2) a bank has a specific lien on the collateral and the requirements of legal
certainty are met.
Overall framework and minimum conditions
60. There are two approaches under the Basel framework – the simple approach
and the comprehensive approach. A bank in India shall adopt the comprehensive
approach, which allows fuller offset of collateral against exposures, by effectively
reducing the exposure amount by the value ascribed to the collateral. Under this
approach, a bank, which take eligible financial collateral (e.g., cash or securities,
more specifically defined below), is allowed to reduce its exposure to a
counterparty when calculating its capital requirements to take account of the risk
mitigating effect of the collateral. CRM is allowed only on an account-by-account
basis. However, the following standards shall be met before capital relief is
granted:
(1) In addition to the general requirements for legal certainty, the legal
mechanism by which collateral is pledged or transferred shall ensure that the
bank has the right to liquidate or take legal possession of it, in a timely
manner, in the event of the default, insolvency or bankruptcy (or one or more
otherwise-defined credit events set out in the transaction documentation) of
the counterparty (and, where applicable, of the custodian holding the
collateral). Further, a bank shall take all steps necessary to fulfill those
requirements under the law applicable to the bank’s interest in the collateral
for obtaining and maintaining an enforceable security interest, e.g., by
registering it with a registrar.
(2) For collateral to provide protection, the credit quality of the counterparty and
the value of the collateral shall not have a material positive correlation.
Explanation – securities issued by the counterparty or by any related group
entity would provide little protection and so would be ineligible.
(3) A bank shall have clear and robust procedures for the timely liquidation of
collateral to ensure that any legal conditions required for declaring the default
of the counterparty and liquidating the collateral are observed, and that
collateral can be liquidated promptly.
97

(4) Where the collateral is held by a custodian, a bank shall take reasonable
steps to ensure that the custodian segregates the collateral from its own
assets.
(5) A bank shall ensure that sufficient resources are devoted to the orderly
operation of margin agreements with OTC derivative and securities-financing
counterparties banks, as measured by the timeliness and accuracy of its
outgoing calls and response time to incoming calls. A bank shall have
collateral management policies in place to control, monitor and report the
following to the Board or one of its committees:
(i) the risk to which margin agreements exposes them (such as the
volatility and liquidity of the securities exchanged as collateral);
(ii) the concentration risk to particular types of collateral;
(iii) the reuse of collateral (both cash and non-cash) including the
potential liquidity shortfalls resulting from the reuse of collateral
received from counterparties; and
(iv) the surrender of rights on collateral posted to counterparties.
61. A capital requirement shall be applied to a bank on either side of the
collateralised transaction: for example, both repos and reverse repos shall be
subject to capital requirements. Likewise, both sides of securities lending and
borrowing transactions shall be subject to explicit capital charges, as shall the
posting of securities in connection with a derivative exposure or other borrowing.
62. The comprehensive approach
(1) A bank shall calculate its adjusted exposure to a counterparty for capital
adequacy purposes in order to take account of the effects of the collateral
taken. The bank shall adjust both, the amount of the exposure to the
counterparty and the value of any collateral received in support of that
counterparty, to account for possible future fluctuations in the value of either,
occasioned by market movements. These adjustments are referred to as
‘haircuts’. The application of haircuts shall give volatility adjusted amounts for
both – exposure and collateral. The volatility adjusted amount for the
exposure shall be higher than the exposure and the volatility adjusted amount
98

for the collateral shall be lower than the collateral, unless either side of the
transaction is cash. Therefore, the ‘haircut’ for the exposure shall be a
premium factor and the ‘haircut’ for the collateral shall be a discount factor.
Since the value of credit exposures acquired by a bank in the course of its
banking operations would not be subject to market volatility, (as the loan
disbursal / investment shall be a ‘cash’ transaction) haircut on such
exposures shall not be applicable, though the haircut stipulated in Table 12
shall apply only to the eligible collateral of the bank. On the other hand,
exposures of a bank, arising out of repo-style transactions shall require
upward adjustment for volatility, as the value of security sold / lent / pledged
in the repo transaction, shall be subjected to market volatility. Hence, such
exposures shall attract haircut.
(2) Additionally, where the exposure and collateral are held in different currencies
an additional downwards adjustment shall be made to the volatility adjusted
collateral amount to take account of possible future fluctuations in exchange
rates.
(3) Where the volatility-adjusted exposure amount is greater than the volatility-
adjusted collateral amount (including additional adjustment for foreign
exchange risk), a bank shall calculate its RWA as the difference between the
two multiplied by the risk weight of the counterparty. The framework for
performing calculations of capital requirement is indicated in paragraph 64.
63. Eligible financial collateral
The following collateral instruments are eligible for recognition in the comprehensive
approach:
(i) Cash (as well as certificates of deposit or comparable instruments, including
fixed deposit receipts, issued by the lending bank) on deposit with the bank
which is incurring the counterparty exposure.
(ii) Gold including both bullion and jewellery. However, the value of the
collateralised jewellery should be arrived at after notionally converting these
to 99.99 purity.
(iii) Securities issued by Central and State Governments
99

(iv) Kisan Vikas Patra and National Savings Certificates provided no lock-in
period is operational and if they can be encashed within the holding period.
(v) Life insurance policies with a declared surrender value of an insurance
company which is regulated by an insurance sector regulator.
(vi) Debt securities rated by a chosen credit rating agency in respect of which a
bank should be sufficiently confident about the market liquidity where these
are either:
(a) Attracting 100 per cent or lesser risk weight i.e., rated at least BBB (-)
when issued by public sector entities and other entities (including
banks and Primary Dealers); or
(b) Attracting 100 per cent or lesser risk weight i.e., rated at least CARE
A3 / CRISIL A3 / India Ratings and Research Private Limited (India
Ratings) A3 / ICRA A3 / Brickwork A3 / Acuite A3 / IVR A3
(INFOMERICS) for short-term debt instruments.
Explanation - A debenture would meet the test of liquidity if it is traded on a
recognised stock exchange(s) on at least 90 per cent of the trading days
during the preceding 365 days. Further, liquidity can be evidenced in the
trading during the previous one month in the recognised stock exchange if
there are a minimum of 25 trades of marketable lots in securities of each
issuer.
(vii) Debt securities not rated by a chosen credit rating agency in respect of
which a bank should be sufficiently confident about the market liquidity where
these are:
(a) issued by a bank;
(b) listed on a recognised exchange;
(c) classified as senior debt;
(d) all rated issues of the same seniority by the issuing bank are rated at
least BBB (-) or CARE A3 / CRISIL A3 / India Ratings and Research
Private Limited (India Ratings) A3 / ICRA A3 / Brickwork A3 / Acuite
A3 / IVR A3 (INFOMERICS) by a chosen credit rating agency;
100

(e) the bank holding the securities as collateral has no information to
suggest that the issue justifies a rating below BBB(-) or CARE A3 /
CRISIL A3 / India Ratings and Research Private Limited (India
Ratings) A3 / ICRA A3 / Brickwork A3 / Acuite A3 / IVR A3
(INFOMERICS) (as applicable); and
(f) A bank should be sufficiently confident about the market liquidity of
the security.
(viii) Units of mutual funds regulated by the securities regulator of the jurisdiction
of the bank’s operation mutual funds where:
(a) price for the units is publicly quoted daily i.e., where the daily NAV is
available in public domain; and
(b) the mutual fund is limited to investing in the instruments listed in this
paragraph.
64. Calculation of capital requirement
(1) For a collateralised transaction, the exposure amount after risk mitigation
shall be calculated as follows:
E* = max {0, [E x (1 + He) - C x (1 - Hc - Hfx)]}
where:
E* = the exposure value after risk mitigation
E = current value of the exposure for which the collateral qualifies as a risk
mitigant
H = haircut appropriate to the exposure
e
C = the current value of the collateral received
H = haircut appropriate to the collateral
c
H = haircut appropriate for currency mismatch between the collateral and
fx
exposure
(2) The exposure amount after risk mitigation (i.e., E*) shall be multiplied by the
risk weight of the counterparty to obtain the RWA amount for the collateralised
transaction.
101

(3) Illustrative examples for calculation of exposure amount for collateralised
transactions are as under.
Sl. No. Particulars Case I Case 2 Case 3 Case 4 Case 5
(1) (2) (3) (4) (5) (6) (7)
1 Exposure 100 100 100 100 100
Maturity of the
2 2 3 6 3 3
exposure
Nature of the Corporate Corporate Corporate Corporate Corporate
3
exposure Bond Bond Bond Bond Bond
4 Currency INR INR USD INR INR
4000
Exposure in (Row 1 x
5 100 100 100 100
rupees exch.
rate##)
Rating of
BB A BBB- AA B-
exposure
6
Applicable Risk
150 50 100@ 30 150
weight
Haircut for
7 0 0 0 0 0
exposure*
8 Collateral 100 100 4000 2 100
9 Currency INR INR INR USD INR
80
10 Collateral (in ₹) 100 100 4000 (Row 1 x 100
Exch. Rate)
Residual
maturity of
11 2 3 6 3 5
collateral
(years)
Sovereign Foreign
Nature of Bank Corporate
12 (GoI) Corporate Corporate
collateral Bonds Bonds
Security Bonds Bonds
Rating of AAA (S &
13 NA Unrated BBB AA
Collateral P)
Haircut for
14 collateral 0.02 0.06 0.12 0.04 0.08
(%)
Haircut for
15 0 0 0.08 0.08 0
currency
102

Sl. No. Particulars Case I Case 2 Case 3 Case 4 Case 5
(1) (2) (3) (4) (5) (6) (7)
mismatches
(%)
[cf. paragraph
65(4) of these
Directions]
Total Haircut
on collateral
16 2 6 800 9.6 8.0
[Row 10 x (row
14+15)]
Collateral after
haircut
17 98 94 3200 70.4 92
(Row 10 - Row
16)
Net Exposure
18 2 6 800 29.6 8
(Row 5 – Row
17)
Risk weight
19 150 50 100@ 30 150
(%)
RWA
20 3 3 800 8.88 12
(Row 18 x 19)
##Exchange rate assumed to be 1 USD = ₹40
#Not applicable
@In case of long-term ratings, as per paragraph 128 of Reserve Bank of India (Small Finance Banks –
Prudential Norms on Capital Adequacy) Directions, 2025, where ‘+’ or ‘-’ notation is attached to the
rating, the corresponding main rating category risk weight is to be used. Hence risk weight is 100 per
cent.
*Haircut for exposure is taken as zero because the loans are not marked to market and hence are not
volatile
Case 4: Haircut applicable as per Table 12
(4) Illustration on computation of capital charge for Counterparty Credit Risk
(CCR) – repo transactions is as under.
Let us assume the following parameters of a hypothetical repo transaction:
Type of the Security GOI security
Residual Maturity 5 years
Coupon 6 %
103

Type of the Security GOI security
Current Market Value ₹1050
Cash borrowed ₹1000
Modified Duration of the security 4.5 years
Assumed frequency of margining Daily
2%
Haircut for security
Zero
Haircut on cash
5 business-days
Minimum holding period
Computation of total capital charge comprising the capital charge for CCR and Credit
for the underlying security:
In the books of the borrower of funds (for the off-balance sheet exposure due to lending
of the security under repo) -
(In this case, the security lent is the exposure of the security lender while cash
borrowed is the collateral)
Sr.
Items Particulars Amount (in ₹)
No.
A. Capital Charge for CCR
1. Exposure MV of the security 1050
2. CCF for Exposure 100 %
3. On-Balance Sheet Credit Equivalent 1050 * 100 % 1050
4. Haircut 1.4 % @
Exposure adjusted for haircut as per Table
5. 1050 * 1.014 1064.70
12 of these directions
6. Collateral for the security lent Cash 1000
7. Haircut for exposure 0 %
8. Collateral adjusted for haircut 1000 * 1.00 1000
9. Net Exposure ( 5- 8) 1064.70 – 1000 64.70
Risk weight (for a Scheduled CRAR-
10. 20 %
compliant bank)
104

Sr.
Items Particulars Amount (in ₹)
No.
11. Risk weighted assets for CCR (9 x 10) 64.70 * 20 % 12.94
12. Capital Charge for CCR (11 x 15%) 12.94 * 0.15 1.94
B. Capital for Credit Risk of the security
Zero
Capital for credit risk (Being
1. Credit risk
(if the security is held under banking book) Government
security)
Total capital required
1.94
(For CCR + credit risk)
@The supervisory haircut of 2 per cent has been scaled down using the formula indicated in paragraph
65 of these directions.
In the books of the lender of funds (for the on-balance sheet exposure due to lending
of funds under repo) -
(In this case, the cash lent is the exposure and the security borrowed is collateral)
Sr.
Items Particulars Amount (in ₹)
No
A. Capital Charge for CCR
1. Exposure Cash 1000
2. Haircut for exposure 0 %
Exposure adjusted for haircut as per
3. 1000 * 1.00 1000
Table 12 of the Direction
Market value of the
4. Collateral for the cash lent 1050
security
5. Haircut for collateral 1.4 % @
6. Collateral adjusted for haircut 1050 * 0.986 1035.30
7. Net Exposure (3 - 6) Max {1000 -1035.30} 0
Risk weight (for a Scheduled CRAR-
8. 20 %
compliant bank)
9. Risk weighted assets for CCR (7 x 8) 0 * 20 % 0
10. Capital Charge for CCR 0 0
B. Capital for Credit Risk of the security
105

Sr.
Items Particulars Amount (in ₹)
No
Capital for credit risk Not applicable, as it is
1. (if the security is held under banking Credit Risk maintained by the
book) borrower of funds
@The supervisory haircut of 2 per cent has been scaled down using the formula indicated in paragraph
65 of these directions.
65. Haircuts
(1) A bank in India shall use only the standard supervisory haircuts prescribed in
these Master Directions for both the exposure as well as the collateral. The
haircuts (assuming daily mark-to-market, daily re-margining and a 10
business-day holding period), expressed as percentages, shall be as
furnished in Table 12.
Explanation - Holding period shall be the time normally required by the bank to
realise the value of the collateral.
(2) The ratings indicated in Table 12 represent the ratings assigned by the
domestic rating agencies. In the case of exposures toward debt securities
issued by foreign sovereigns and foreign corporates, the haircut may be
based on ratings of the international rating agencies, as indicated in Table
13.
(3) Sovereign shall include the Reserve Bank and DICGC which are eligible for
zero per cent risk weight.
(4) The standard supervisory haircut for currency risk where exposure and
collateral are denominated in different currencies is eight per cent (also based
on a 10-business day holding period and daily mark-to-market).
Table 12: Standard supervisory haircuts for sovereign and other securities which constitute
exposure and collateral
Residual
Haircut
Sr. No. Issue rating for debt securities maturity
(in percentage)
(in years)
Securities issued / guaranteed by the Government of India and issued by the State
A
Governments (Sovereign securities)
106

Residual
Haircut
Sr. No. Issue rating for debt securities maturity
(in percentage)
(in years)
≤ 1 year 0.5
Rating not applicable – as Government
> 1 year and ≤ 5
I securities are not currently rated in India 2
years
> 5 years 4
Domestic debt securities other than those indicated at Item No. A above including the
securities guaranteed by Indian State Governments
≤ 1 year 1
AAA to AA > 1 year and ≤ 5
II 4
A1 years
> 5 years 8
A to BBB ≤ 1 year 2
A2, A3 and > 1 year and ≤
B III 6
unrated bank securities as specified in years
paragraph 63 (vii) of these Directions > 5 years 12
Highest haircut
applicable to any of
the above
IV Units of Mutual Funds securities, in which
the eligible mutual
fund {cf. paragraph
63(viii)} can invest
C Cash in the same currency 0
D Gold 15
Table 13: Standard supervisory haircut for exposures and collaterals which are obligations of
foreign central sovereigns / foreign corporates
Issue rating for debt securities as
Residual Other Issues Other Issues
assigned by international rating
Maturity (%) (%)
agencies
< = 1 year 0.5 1
AAA to AA /
> 1 year and <
A1 2 4
or = 5 years
107

Issue rating for debt securities as
Residual Other Issues Other Issues
assigned by international rating
Maturity (%) (%)
agencies
> 5 years 4 8
< = 1 year 1 2
A to BBB / > 1 year and <
3 6
A2 / A3 and Unrated Bank Securities or = 5 years
> 5 years 6 12
(5) For transactions in which a bank’s exposures are unrated, or the bank lends
non-eligible instruments (i.e., non-investment grade corporate securities), the
haircut to be applied on the exposure shall be 25 per cent.
(6) Where the collateral is a basket of assets, the haircut on the basket shall be,
where a is the weight of the asset (as measured by the amount / value of the
i
asset in units of currency) in the basket and H, the haircut applicable to that
i
asset.
(7) Adjustment for different holding periods:
For some transactions, depending on the nature and frequency of the revaluation
and remargining provisions, different holding periods (other than 10 business-
days) are appropriate. The framework for collateral haircuts distinguishes
between repo-style transactions (i.e., repo / reverse repos and securities lending
/ borrowing), ‘other capital-market-driven transactions (i.e., OTC derivatives
transactions and margin lending) and secured lending. In capital-market-driven
transactions and repo-style transactions, the documentation contains
remargining clauses; in secured lending transactions, it generally does not. In
view of different holding periods, in the case of these transactions, the minimum
holding period shall be taken as indicated in table below:
Table 14: Minimum holding period for different transaction types
Transaction type Minimum holding Period Condition
Repo-style transaction five business days daily remargining
108

Transaction type Minimum holding Period Condition
Other capital market
ten business days daily remargining
transactions
Secured lending twenty business days daily revaluation
The haircut for the transactions with other than 10 business-days minimum
holding period, as indicated above, shall have to be adjusted by scaling up / down
the haircut for 10 business–days indicated in the Table 12, as per the formula
given in sub-paragraph (i) below.
(8) Adjustment for non-daily mark-to-market or remargining:
In case a transaction has margining frequency different from daily margining
assumed, the applicable haircut for the transaction shall also need to be adjusted
by using the formula given in sub-paragraph (i).
(9) Formula for adjustment for different holding periods and / or non-daily mark-
to-market or remargining: Adjustment for the variation in holding period and
margining / mark-to-market, as indicated in sub-paragraphs (g) and (h) above
shall be done as per the following formula:
Where;
H = haircut
H = 10-business-day standard supervisory haircut for instrument
10
N = actual number of business days between remargining for capital market
R
transactions or revaluation for secured transactions.
T = minimum holding period for the type of transaction
M
66. Capital adequacy framework for repo / reverse repo-style transactions
(1) The repo-style transactions also attract capital charge for counterparty credit risk
(CCR), in addition to credit risk. The CCR is defined as the risk of default by the
109

counterparty in a repo-style transaction, resulting in non-delivery of the security
lent / pledged / sold or non-repayment of the cash.
(2) Treatment in the books of the borrower of funds:
(i) Where a bank has borrowed funds by selling / lending or posting, as
collateral, of securities, the ‘exposure’ shall be an off-balance sheet
exposure equal to the market value of the securities sold / lent as scaled up
after applying appropriate haircut. For the purpose, the haircut as per Table
12 shall be used as the basis which shall be applied by using the formula
in paragraph 65(9), to reflect minimum (prescribed) holding period of five
business-days for repo-style transactions and the variations, if any, in the
frequency of re-margining, from the daily margining assumed for the
standard supervisory haircut. The 'off-balance sheet exposure' shall be
converted into 'on-balance sheet' equivalent by applying a CCF of 100 per
cent, as per Table 9.
(ii) The amount of money received shall be treated as collateral for the
securities lent / sold / pledged. Since the collateral is cash, the haircut for it
shall be zero.
(iii) The credit equivalent amount arrived at (a) above, net of amount of cash
collateral, shall attract a risk weight as applicable to the counterparty.
(iv) As the securities shall come back to the books of the borrowing bank after
the repo period, it shall continue to maintain the capital for the credit risk in
the securities in the cases where the securities involved in repo are held
under banking book. The capital charge for credit risk shall be determined
according to the credit rating of the issuer of the security. In the case of
Government securities, the capital charge for credit risk shall be 'zero'.
(3) Treatment in the books of the lender of funds
(i) The amount lent shall be treated as on-balance sheet / funded exposure on
the counter party, collateralised by the securities accepted under the repo.
110

(ii) The exposure, being cash, shall receive a zero haircut.
(iii) The collateral shall be adjusted downwards / marked down as per
applicable haircut.
(iv) The amount of exposure reduced by the adjusted amount of collateral, shall
receive a risk weight as applicable to the counterparty, as it is an on-
balance sheet exposure.
(v) The lending bank shall not maintain any capital charge for the security
received by it as collateral during the repo period, since such collateral does
not enter its balance sheet but is only held as a bailee.
(4) The formula in paragraph 65 shall be adapted as follows to calculate the capital
requirements for transactions with bilateral netting agreements. The bilateral
netting agreements shall meet the requirements set out in paragraph 54 (part A)
of these guidelines.
E* = max {0, [(Σ(E) – Σ(C)) + Σ (E x H ) +Σ(E x H )]}
s s fx fx
where:
E* = the exposure value after risk mitigation
E = current value of the exposure
C = the value of the collateral received
E = absolute value of the net position in a given security
s
H = haircut appropriate to Es
s
E = absolute value of the net position in a currency different from the
fx
settlement
currency
H = haircut appropriate for currency mismatch
fx
The net long or short position of each security included in the netting agreement
shall be multiplied by the appropriate haircut. All other rules regarding the
calculation of haircuts stated in paragraphs 64 and 65 equivalently apply for bank
using bilateral netting agreements for repo-style transactions.
111

67. Collateralised OTC derivatives transactions
The calculation of the counterparty credit risk charge for an individual contract
shall be as follows:
counterparty charge = [(RC + add-on) – C ] x r x 15%
A
where:
RC = the replacement cost,
add-on = the amount for potential future exposure calculated according to
paragraph 52(2),
C = the volatility adjusted collateral amount under the comprehensive
A
approach prescribed in paragraphs 64 and 65 or zero if no eligible collateral
is applied to the transaction, and
r = the risk weight of the counterparty.
Note: The risk-weighted assets for counterparty credit risk shall be determined
by multiplying the CCR capital charge by a factor of 6.67 (100 / 15).
When effective bilateral netting contracts are in place, RC shall be the net
replacement cost and the add-on shall be A as calculated according to
Net
paragraph 54 and paragraph 52(2). The haircut for currency risk (H ) shall be
fx
applied when there is a mismatch between the collateral currency and the
settlement currency. Even in the case where there are more than two currencies
involved in the exposure, collateral and settlement currency, a single haircut
assuming a 10- business day holding period scaled up as necessary depending
on the frequency of mark-to-market shall be applied.
C.4 Credit risk mitigation (CRM) techniques - guarantees
68. Where guarantees are direct, explicit, irrevocable and unconditional a bank shall
take account of such credit protection in calculating capital requirements.
69. A range of guarantors are recognised and a substitution approach shall be
applied. Thus, only guarantees issued by entities with a lower risk weight than
the counterparty shall lead to reduced capital charges since the protected portion
of the counterparty exposure is assigned the risk weight of the guarantor,
112

whereas the uncovered portion retains the risk weight of the underlying
counterparty.
70. Detailed operational requirements for guarantees eligible for being treated as a
CRM are as under.
(1) A guarantee (counter-guarantee) shall represent a direct claim on the
protection provider and shall be explicitly referenced to specific exposures or
a pool of exposures, so that the extent of the cover is clearly defined and
incontrovertible. The guarantee shall be irrevocable; there shall be no clause
in the contract that would allow the protection provider to unilaterally cancel
the cover or that would increase the effective cost of cover as a result of
deteriorating credit quality in the guaranteed exposure. The guarantee shall
also be unconditional; there shall be no clause in the guarantee outside the
direct control of the bank that shall prevent the protection provider from being
obliged to pay out in a timely manner in the event that the original
counterparty fails to make the payment(s) due.
(2) All exposures shall be risk weighted after taking into account risk mitigation
available in the form of guarantees. When a guaranteed exposure is classified
as non-performing, the guarantee shall cease to be a credit risk mitigant and
no adjustment shall be permissible on account of credit risk mitigation in the
form of guarantees. The entire outstanding, net of specific provision and net
of realisable value of eligible collaterals / credit risk mitigants, shall attract the
appropriate risk weight.
71. In addition to the legal certainty requirements in paragraph 58, for a guarantee
to be recognised, the following conditions shall be satisfied:
(1) On the qualifying default / non-payment of the counterparty, the bank is able
in a timely manner to pursue the guarantor for any monies outstanding under
the documentation governing the transaction. The guarantor shall make one
lump sum payment of all monies under such documentation to the bank, or
the guarantor shall assume the future payment obligations of the counterparty
covered by the guarantee. The bank shall have the right to receive any such
113

payments from the guarantor without first having to take legal actions in order
to pursue the counterparty for payment.
(2) The guarantee is an explicitly documented obligation assumed by the
guarantor.
(3) Except as noted in the following sentence, the guarantee covers all types of
payments the underlying obligor is expected to make under the
documentation governing the transaction, for example notional amount,
margin payments etc. Where a guarantee covers payment of principal only,
interests and other uncovered payments shall be treated as an unsecured
amount in accordance with paragraph 74.
72. Range of eligible guarantors (counter-guarantors)
Credit protection given by the following entities shall be recognised:
(1) Sovereigns, sovereign entities (including BIS, IMF, European Central Bank
and European Community as well as those MDBs referred to in paragraph
30, banks and primary dealers with a lower risk weight than the counterparty.
(2) Other entities that are externally rated except when credit protection is
provided to a securitisation exposure. This shall include credit protection
provided by parent, subsidiary and affiliate companies when they have a
lower risk weight than the obligor.
73. Risk Weights
The protected portion is assigned the risk weight of the protection provider.
Exposures covered by State Government guarantees shall attract a risk weight
of 20 per cent. The uncovered portion of the exposure is assigned the risk weight
of the underlying counterparty.
74. Proportional cover
Where the amount guaranteed, or against which credit protection is held, is less
than the amount of the exposure, and the secured and unsecured portions are
of equal seniority, i.e., the bank and the guarantor share losses on a pro-rata
basis capital relief shall be afforded on a proportional basis i.e., the protected
114

portion of the exposure shall receive the treatment applicable to eligible
guarantees, with the remainder treated as unsecured.
75. Currency mismatches
Where the credit protection is denominated in a currency different from that in
which the exposure is denominated i.e., when there is a currency mismatch, the
amount of the exposure deemed to be protected shall be reduced by the
application of a haircut H , i.e.,
FX
GA = G x (1- HFX)
Where;
G = nominal amount of the credit protection
H = haircut appropriate for currency mismatch between the credit
FX
protection and underlying obligation.
A bank using the supervisory haircuts shall apply a haircut of eight per cent
for currency mismatch.
76. Sovereign guarantees and counter guarantees
A claim may be covered by a guarantee that is indirectly counter guaranteed by
a sovereign. Such a claim shall be treated as covered by a sovereign guarantee
provided that:
(1) the sovereign counter-guarantee covers all credit risk elements of the claim;
(2) both the original guarantee and the counter-guarantee meet all operational
requirements for guarantees, except that the counter-guarantee need not be
direct and explicit to the original claim; and
(3) the cover shall be robust and no historical evidence suggests that the
coverage of the counter-guarantee is less than effectively equivalent to that
of a direct sovereign guarantee.
C.5 Maturity mismatch
77. For calculating risk-weighted assets, a maturity mismatch occurs when the
residual maturity of collateral is less than that of the underlying exposure. Where
there is a maturity mismatch and the CRM has an original maturity of less than
115

one year, the CRM is not recognised for capital purposes. In other cases where
there is a maturity mismatch, partial recognition is given to the CRM for regulatory
capital purposes as detailed below in paragraphs 78 to 80. In case of loans
collateralised by the bank’s own deposits, even if the tenor of such deposits is
less than three months or deposits have maturity mismatch vis-à-vis the tenor of
the loan, the provisions of this paragraph regarding derecognition of collateral
would not be attracted provided an explicit consent has been obtained from the
depositor (i.e. counterparty) for adjusting the maturity proceeds of such deposits
against the outstanding loan or for renewal of such deposits till the full repayment
of the underlying loan.
78. Definition of Maturity
The maturity of the underlying exposure and the maturity of the collateral should
both be defined conservatively. The effective maturity of the underlying should
be gauged as the longest possible remaining time before the counterparty is
scheduled to fulfil its obligation, taking into account any applicable grace period.
For the collateral, embedded options which may reduce the term of the collateral
should be taken into account so that the shortest possible effective maturity is
used. The maturity relevant here is the residual maturity.
79. Risk weights for maturity mismatches
As outlined in paragraph 77, collateral with maturity mismatches is only
recognised when their original maturities are greater than or equal to one year.
As a result, the maturity of collateral for exposures with original maturities of less
than one year shall be matched to be recognised. In all cases, collateral with
maturity mismatches shall no longer be recognised when they have a residual
maturity of three months or less.
80. When there is a maturity mismatch with recognised credit risk mitigants
(collateral, on-balance sheet netting and guarantees) the following adjustment
shall be applied:
Pa = P x (t - 0.25) ÷ (T- 0.25)
where:
P = value of the credit protection adjusted for maturity mismatch
a
116

P = credit protection (e.g., collateral amount, guarantee amount) adjusted for
any haircuts
t = min (T, residual maturity of the credit protection arrangement) expressed
in years
T = min (5, residual maturity of the exposure) expressed in years
C.6 Treatment of pools of credit risk mitigation (CRM) techniques
81. In the case where a bank has multiple CRM techniques covering a single
exposure (e.g., a bank has both collateral and guarantee partially covering an
exposure), the bank shall be required to subdivide the exposure into portions
covered by each type of CRM technique (e.g., portion covered by collateral,
portion covered by guarantee) and the risk-weighted assets of each portion shall
be calculated separately. When credit protection provided by a single protection
provider has differing maturities, they shall be subdivided into separate protection
as well.
D Treatment for illiquid positions
82. Requirements related to Prudent Valuation
A bank shall have a framework for prudent valuation practices (for positions that
are accounted for at fair value) which, at the minimum, shall contain the following.
(1) Systems and Controls
A bank shall establish and maintain adequate systems and controls sufficient to
give management and supervisors the confidence that its valuation estimates are
prudent and reliable. These systems shall be integrated with other risk
management systems within the bank (such as credit analysis). Such systems
shall include:
(i) Documented policies and procedures for the process of valuation: This
includes clearly defined responsibilities of the various areas involved in the
determination of the valuation, sources of market information, and review
of their appropriateness, guidelines for the use of unobservable inputs
reflecting the bank’s assumptions of what market participants would use in
pricing the position, frequency of independent valuation, timing of closing
117

prices, procedures for adjusting valuations, end of the month and ad-hoc
verification procedures; and
(ii) Clear and independent (i.e., independent of front office) reporting lines for
the department accountable for the valuation process.
(2) Valuation methodologies
(i) Marking to market
(a) A bank shall mark-to-market to the extent possible. The more prudent
side of bid / offer shall be used unless the bank is a significant market
maker in a particular position type and it can close out at mid-market.
(b) A bank shall maximise the use of relevant observable inputs and
minimise the use of unobservable inputs when estimating fair value
using a valuation technique. However, observable inputs or
transactions may not be relevant, such as in a forced liquidation or
distressed sale, or transactions may not be observable, such as when
markets are inactive. In such cases, the observable data shall be
considered, but may not be determinative.
Explanation – Marking-to-market is the valuation of positions at least on a
daily basis at readily available close out prices in orderly transactions that
are sourced independently. Examples of readily available close out prices
include exchange prices, screen prices, or quotes from several
independent reputable brokers.
(ii) Marking to model
Where marking-to-market is not possible, a bank shall follow the
instructions on valuation of investments in the Reserve Bank of India
(Payments Banks – Classification, Valuation and Operation of Investment
Portfolio) Directions, 2025. For investment and derivative positions other
than those covered in the Master Direction ibid, the valuation model used
by a bank shall be demonstrated to be prudent. When marking to valuation
model other than that prescribed in the Reserve Bank / FIMMDA guidelines,
an extra degree of conservatism is appropriate. The Reserve Bank will
118

consider the following in assessing whether a mark-to-model valuation is
prudent:
(a) Senior management shall be aware of the elements of the trading
book or of other fair-valued positions which are subject to mark to
model and shall understand the materiality of the uncertainty this
creates in the reporting of the risk / performance of the business.
(b) Market inputs shall be sourced, to the extent possible, in line with
market prices (as discussed above). The appropriateness of the
market inputs for the particular position being valued shall be reviewed
regularly.
(c) Where available, generally accepted valuation methodologies for
particular products shall be used as far as possible.
(d) Where the model is developed by the bank itself, it shall be based on
appropriate assumptions, which have been assessed and challenged
by suitably qualified parties independent of the development process.
The model shall be developed or approved independently of the front
office. It shall be independently tested. This includes validating the
mathematics, the assumptions, and the software implementation.
(e) There shall be formal change control procedures in place and a
secure copy of the model shall be held and periodically used to check
valuations.
(f) Risk management shall be aware of the weaknesses of the models
used and how best to reflect those in the valuation output.
(g) The model shall be subject to periodic review to determine the
accuracy of its performance (e.g., assessing continued
appropriateness of the assumptions, analysis of P&L versus risk
factors, comparison of actual close out values to model outputs).
(h) Valuation adjustments shall be made as appropriate, for example, to
cover the uncertainty of the model valuation.
119

Explanation – Marking-to model is defined as any valuation which has to
be benchmarked, extrapolated, or otherwise calculated from a market
input.
(iii) Independent Price Verification
(a) Independent price verification is distinct from daily mark-to-market. It
is the process by which market prices or model inputs are regularly
verified for accuracy. While daily marking-to-market may be
performed by dealers, verification of market prices or model inputs
shall be performed by a unit independent of the dealing room, at least
monthly (or, depending on the nature of the market / trading activity,
more frequently). It need not be performed as frequently as daily
mark-to-market, since the objective, i.e., independent, marking of
positions shall reveal any error or bias in pricing, which shall result in
the elimination of inaccurate daily marks.
(b) Independent price verification entails a higher standard of accuracy in
that the market prices or model inputs are used to determine profit and
loss figures, whereas daily marks are used primarily for management
reporting in between reporting dates. For independent price
verification, where pricing sources are more subjective, e.g., only one
available broker quote, prudent measures such as valuation
adjustments may be appropriate.
(iv) Valuation adjustments
(a) As part of its procedures for marking to market, a bank shall establish
and maintain procedures for considering valuation adjustments. A
bank using third-party valuations shall consider whether valuation
120

adjustments are necessary. Such considerations are also necessary
when marking to model.
(b) At a minimum, a bank shall consider the following valuation
adjustments while valuing its derivatives portfolios:
(i) incurred CVA losses;
Explanation – Provisions against incurred CVA losses are akin
to specific provisions required on impaired assets and
depreciation in case of investments held in the trading book.
These provisions shall be in addition to the general provisions at
0.4 per cent required on the positive MTM values. The provisions
against incurred CVA losses may be netted off from the
exposure value while calculating capital charge for default risk
under the CEM as required in terms of paragraph 52(2).
(ii) close-out costs, which factor in the cost of eliminating the market
risk of the portfolio;
(iii) operational risks;
(iv) early termination, investing, and funding costs (i.e., the cost of
funding and investing cash flow mismatches at rates different
from the rate which models typically assume);
(v) future administrative costs, which relate to the cost that will be
incurred to administer the portfolio; and
(vi) where appropriate, model risk.
(c) A bank shall follow any recognised method / model to compute the
above adjustments except provisions against incurred CVA losses.
121

However, a bank shall use the following formula to calculate incurred
CVA loss on derivatives transactions:
ICVALt = Max [0,{(EEt *RPt) - (EE0 *RP0)}]
Where;
ICVALt = Cumulative Incurred CVA loss at time ‘t’.
EEt = Value of counterparty exposure projected after one year from ‘t’ and
discounted back to ‘t’ using CEM and a risk free discount rate for one year
EE0 = Counterparty exposure estimated at time ‘0’ using CEM
RPt = Credit spread of the counterparty as reflected in the CDS or bond
(d) In cases where market-based credit spreads are not available, risk
premium applicable to the counterparty according to its credit grade
as per the internal credit rating system of the bank used for pricing /
loan approval purposes at time ‘t’ shall be used.
RP = Credit spread of the counterparty as reflected in the CDS or
0
bond prices.
(e) In cases where market-based credit spreads are not available, risk
premium applicable to the counterparty according to its credit grade
as per the internal credit rating system of the bank used for pricing /
loan approval purposes at time ‘0’, i.e., the date of the transaction.
Explanation – The instructions in this paragraph are especially important
for positions without actual market prices or observable inputs to
valuation, as well as less liquid positions which raise supervisory
concerns about prudent valuation. The valuation guidance in this
paragraph is not intended to require a bank to change valuation
procedures for financial reporting purposes.
(3) Adjustment to the current valuation of less liquid positions for regulatory capital
purposes
(i) A bank shall establish and maintain procedures for judging the necessity of
and calculating an adjustment to the current valuation of less liquid
positions for regulatory capital purposes. This adjustment shall be in
122

addition to any changes to the value of the position required for financial
reporting purposes and shall be designed to reflect the illiquidity of the
position. An adjustment to a position’s valuation to reflect current illiquidity
shall be considered whether the position is marked to market using market
prices or observable inputs, third-party valuations or marked to model.
(ii) A bank shall make an adjustment to the current valuation of these positions
and review their continued appropriateness on an on-going basis. Reduced
liquidity may have arisen from market events. Additionally, close-out prices
for concentrated positions and / or stale positions shall be considered in
establishing the adjustment. While the Reserve Bank has not prescribed
any particular methodology for calculating the amount of valuation
adjustment on account of illiquid positions, a bank shall consider all relevant
factors when determining the appropriateness of the adjustment for less
liquid positions. These factors shall include, but are not limited to, the
amount of time it would take to hedge out the position / risks within the
position, the average volatility of bid / offer spreads, the availability of
independent market quotes (number and identity of market makers), the
average and volatility of trading volumes (including trading volumes during
periods of market stress), market concentrations, the ageing of positions,
the extent to which valuation relies on marking-to-model, and the impact of
other model risks not included in this paragraph. The valuation adjustment
on account of illiquidity shall be considered irrespective of whether the
123

guidelines issued by FIMMDA have taken into account the illiquidity
premium or not, while fixing YTM / spreads for the purpose of valuation.
(iii) For complex products including, but not limited to, securitisation exposures,
a bank shall explicitly assess the need for valuation adjustments to reflect
two forms of model risk:
(a) the model risk associated with using a possibly incorrect valuation
methodology; and
(b) the risk associated with using unobservable (and possibly incorrect)
calibration parameters in the valuation model.
The adjustment to the current valuation of less liquid positions made under
paragraph 82(3)(ii) shall not be debited to Profit and Loss Account but shall be
deducted from CET 1 capital while computing CRAR of the bank. The adjustment
may exceed those valuation adjustments made under financial reporting /
accounting standards and paragraph 82(2)(iv).
124

Chapter IV Market Discipline
83. Pillar 3: Market Discipline, as applicable to Small Finance Banks, shall mutatis
mutandis apply to Payments Banks, subject to their licensing conditions and
extant operating guidelines.
125

Chapter V
Leverage ratio framework
84. Payment Banks should have a leverage ratio of not less than 3 per cent, i.e., its
outside liabilities should not exceed 33.33 times its net worth (paid-up capital and
reserves) on an ongoing basis.
126

Chapter VI
General provisions
85. It may be noted that mention of an activity, transaction or item in these Directions
shall not imply that it is permitted. A bank shall refer to the extant statutory and
regulatory requirements while determining the permissibility or otherwise of an
activity or transaction.
127

Chapter VII
Repeal and Other Provisions
Repeal and saving
86. With the issue of these Directions, the existing Directions, instructions, and
guidelines relating to Prudential Norms on Capital Adequacy as applicable to
Payment Banks stand repealed, as communicated vide circular
DOR.RRC.REC.302/33-01-010/2025-26 dated November 28, 2025. The
Directions, instructions and guidelines repealed prior to the issuance of these
Directions shall continue to remain repealed.
87. Notwithstanding such repeal, any action taken or purported to have been taken,
or initiated under the repealed Directions, instructions, or guidelines shall
continue to be governed by the provisions thereof. All approvals or
acknowledgments granted under these repealed lists shall be deemed as
governed by these Directions. Further, the repeal of these directions,
instructions, or guidelines shall not in any way prejudicially affect:
(i) any right, obligation or liability acquired, accrued, or incurred thereunder;
(ii) any, penalty, forfeiture, or punishment incurred in respect of any
contravention committed thereunder;
(iii) any investigation, legal proceeding, or remedy in respect of any such right,
privilege, obligation, liability, penalty, forfeiture, or punishment as aforesaid;
and any such investigation, legal proceedings or remedy may be instituted,
continued, or enforced and any such penalty, forfeiture or punishment may
be imposed as if those directions, instructions, or guidelines had not been
repealed.
Application of other laws not barred
88. The provisions of these Directions shall be in addition to, and not in derogation
of the provisions of any other laws, rules, regulations or directions, for the time
being in force.
128

Interpretations
89. For giving effect to the provisions of these Directions or in order to remove any
difficulties in the application or interpretation of the provisions of these Directions,
the Reserve Bank̥ may, if it considers necessary, issue necessary clarifications
in respect of any matter covered herein and the interpretation of any provision of
these Directions given by the Reserve Bank shall be final and binding.
(Sunil T S Nair)
Chief General Manager
129

Annex I
Reporting format for details of investments by FIIs and NRIs in PNCPS
qualifying as AT 1 capital
(1) Name of the bank:
(2) Total issue size / amount raised (in ₹):
(3) Date of issue:
FIIs NRIs
Amount raised Amount raised
Number of
Number of FIIs
As a percentage of As a percentage of the
NRIs
(in ₹) (in ₹)
the total issue size total issue size
(4) It is certified that:
(i) the aggregate investment by all FIIs does not exceed 49 per cent of the
issue size and investment by no individual FII exceeds 10 per cent of the
issue size.
(ii) It is certified that the aggregate investment by all NRIs does not exceed 24
per cent of the issue size and investment by no individual NRI exceeds 5
per cent of the issue size.
Authorised Signatory
Date
Seal of the bank
130

Annex II
Format for reporting of capital issuances
Issuer
Issue size
Instrument
Deemed date of allotment
Coupon
Tenor
Credit rating
Put Option
Call Option
Redemption / maturity
Whether private placement or otherwise
Note -
(i) A bank may also email a soft copy of such details to capdor@rbi.org.in.
(ii) The reporting shall be duly certified by the compliance officer of the bank.
(iii) The compliance of the capital issuances with the applicable norms shall continue
to be examined in course of the supervisory evaluation.
131