भारतीय �रज़वर् बैंक
RESERVE BANK OF INDIA
RBI/DOR/2025-26/262
DOR.STR.REC.181/21.04.048/2025-26 November 28, 2025
Reserve Bank of India (Regional Rural Banks – Income Recognition, Asset
Classification and Provisioning) Directions, 2025 (updated as on July 01, 2026)
Table of Contents
Chapter I - Preliminary ...................................................................................................... 2
A. Short title and commencement ......................................................................... 2
B. Applicability ......................................................................................................... 2
C. Definitions ........................................................................................................... 2
Chapter II - General Instructions ..................................................................................... 5
A. General Instructions ........................................................................................... 5
B. Disclosure Requirements ................................................................................... 7
Chapter III - Asset Classification ..................................................................................... 8
A. Asset Classification Norms ............................................................................... 8
B. Specific cases of asset classification ............................................................. 11
C. Valuation of Security ........................................................................................ 12
D. Categories of non-performing assets ............................................................. 12
E. Upgradation of loan accounts classified as NPAs ........................................ 13
F. Automation of Income Recognition, Asset Classification and Provisioning
processes .................................................................................................................... 14
Chapter IV - Provisioning Norms ................................................................................... 20
A. Provisioning Requirements ............................................................................. 20
B. Additional specific provisioning in case of resolution plan implemented
under Chapter IV-A of the Reserve Bank of India (Regional Rural Banks –
Resolution of Stressed Assets) Directions, 2025………………………………..21
Chapter V - Income Recognition .................................................................................... 23
A. Income Recognition .......................................................................................... 23
Chapter VI - Repeal and Other Provisions .................................................................... 25
A. Repeal and saving ............................................................................................ 25
B. Application of other laws not barred .............................................................. 25
C. Interpretations ................................................................................................... 26
1

Introduction
Reserve Bank of India (‘Reserve Bank’) is statutorily mandated to operate the credit
system of the country to its advantage. In line with the international practices and as
per the recommendations made by the Committee on the Financial System (Chairman
Shri M. Narasimham), the Reserve Bank has introduced, in a phased manner,
prudential norms for income recognition, asset classification and provisioning for the
advances portfolio of banks so as to move towards greater consistency and
transparency in the published accounts.
In exercise of powers conferred by Sections 21 and 35A of the Banking Regulation
Act, 1949, and, the Reserve Bank being satisfied that it is necessary and expedient in
the public interest so to do, hereby issues these Directions hereinafter specified.
Chapter I - Preliminary
A. Short title and commencement
1. These Directions shall be called the Reserve Bank of India (Regional Rural Banks
– Income Recognition, Asset Classification and Provisioning) Directions, 2025.
2. These Directions shall come into force with immediate effect.
B. Applicability
3. These Directions shall be applicable to Regional Rural Banks as defined under
clause (ja) of Banking Regulation Act, 1949 (hereinafter collectively referred to
as 'banks' and individually as a 'bank').
4. A bank shall also follow the prudential guidelines on income recognition, asset
classification and provisioning of advances for restructured accounts as
prescribed in the Reserve Bank of India (Regional Rural Banks – Resolution of
Stressed Assets) Directions, 2025, in addition to these Directions.
C. Definitions
5. In these Directions, unless the context states otherwise, the terms herein shall
bear the meaning assigned to them below:
2

(1) ‘crop season’ for each crop, shall mean the period up to harvesting of the
crops raised, as determined by the State Level Bankers’ Committee
(SLBC) in each State;
(2) ‘doubtful asset’ shall mean an asset which has remained in the
substandard category for a period of twelve months; A loan classified as
doubtful has all the weaknesses inherent in that classified as sub-
standard with the added characteristic that the weaknesses make
collection or liquidation in full, on the basis of currently known facts,
conditions and values, highly questionable and improbable. Here too, as
in the case of sub-standard assets rescheduling does not entitle a bank
to upgrade the quality of an advance automatically
(3) ‘exposure’ shall include all funded and non-funded exposures (including
underwriting and similar commitments).
(4) ‘long duration crops’ shall mean crops with crop season longer than one
year;
(5) ‘loss asset’ shall mean an asset where loss has been identified by a bank
or internal or external auditors or the inspection conducted by NABARD,
but the amount has not been written off wholly or partly by the bank;.
(6) ‘non-performing asset’ shall mean an asset, including a leased asset,
which has ceased to generate income for a bank;
(7) ‘out of order status’ – a cash credit / overdraft (CC / OD) account shall be
treated as ‘out of order’ if any of the following conditions are satisfied:
(i) the outstanding balance remains continuously in excess of the
sanctioned limit / drawing power for 90 days;
(ii) the outstanding balance is less than the sanctioned limit / drawing
power but there are no credits continuously for 90 days;
(iii) the outstanding balance is less than the sanctioned limit/drawing
power but credits are not enough to cover the interest debited
during the previous 90 days period.
3

Explanation 1: ‘Previous 90 days period’ referred to in sub-
paragraph (iii) above shall be inclusive of the day for which the day-
end process is being run.
Explanation 2: The definition of ‘out of order’ shall be applicable to
all credit products being offered as an overdraft facility, including
those not meant for business purpose and / or which entail interest
repayments as the only credits.
(8) ‘overdue’ status – any amount due to a bank under any credit facility shall
be treated as ‘overdue’ if it is not paid on the due date fixed by the bank.
(9) ‘provisioning coverage ratio (PCR)’ shall mean the ratio of provisioning
to gross non-performing assets and indicates the extent of funds kept
aside to cover loan losses;
(10) ‘security’ shall mean tangible security properly charged to the bank and
will not include intangible securities like guarantees (including State
government guarantees), comfort letters, etc.
(11) ‘short duration crops’ shall mean crops which are not “long duration”
crops;
(12) ‘substandard asset’ shall mean an asset, which has remained NPA for a
period less than or equal to twelve months; In such cases, the current net
worth of the borrower/guarantor or the current market value of the
security charged is not enough to ensure recovery of the dues to the bank
in full.
6. The definitions of the terms ‘Micro Enterprises’, ‘Small Enterprises’, and ‘Medium
Enterprises’ shall be in terms of the circular FIDD.MSME &
NFS.BC.No.3/06.02.31/2020-21 dated July 2, 2020 on ‘Credit flow to Micro,
Small and Medium Enterprises Sector’ as updated from time to time.
7. All other expressions unless defined herein shall have the same meaning as have
been assigned to them under the Banking Regulation Act, 1949 or the Reserve
Bank of India Act, 1934, or the Companies Act, 2013, or any statutory
modification or re-enactment thereto or other regulations issued by the Reserve
Bank or the Glossary of Terms published by the Reserve Bank or as used in
commercial parlance, as the case may be.
4

Chapter II - General Instructions
A. General Instructions
8. A bank shall comply with the following instructions in respect of all loans
sanctioned on or after December 31, 2021:
(1) The exact due dates for repayment of a loan, frequency of repayment,
breakup between principal and interest, examples of dates of
classification as special mention account (SMA) / non-performing asset
(NPA), etc. shall be clearly specified in the loan agreement.
(2) The borrower shall be apprised of the same at the time of loan sanction
and also at the time of subsequent changes, if any, to the sanction
terms/loan agreement till full repayment of the loan.
(3) In cases of loan facilities with moratorium on payment of principal and /
or interest, the exact date of commencement of repayment shall also be
specified in the loan agreements.
9. In case of loans sanctioned before December 31, 2021, compliance to the
instructions in paragraph 8 shall be ensured as and when such loans become
due for renewal/review.
10. A bank shall apply the following principles in respect of working capital accounts
sanctioned by them:
(1) Ensure that drawings in the working capital accounts are covered by the
adequacy of current assets;
(2) Stock statements relied upon by the bank for determining drawing power
should not be older than three months;
(3) The outstanding in the account based on drawing power calculated from
stock statements older than three months, shall be deemed as irregular.
11. Regular and ad hoc credit limits shall be reviewed / regularised not later than
three months from the due date / date of ad hoc sanction.
5

12. In case of constraints such as non-availability of financial statements and other
data from the borrowers, a bank should furnish evidence to show that renewal /
review of credit limits is already on and would be completed soon.
13. Notwithstanding paragraph 12, delay beyond six months is not considered
desirable as a general discipline. Hence, an account where the regular/adhoc
credit limits have not been reviewed / renewed within 180 days from the due
date/date of ad hoc sanction should be treated as NPA.
14. If the debits arising out of devolvement of letters of credit or invoked guarantees
are parked in a separate account, the balance outstanding in that account also
should be treated as a part of the borrower's principal operating account for the
purpose of application of these Directions.
15. A bank shall flag a borrower account as overdue, if so, as part of their day-end
processes for the due date, irrespective of the time of running such processes.
16. Similarly, classification of borrower accounts as SMA as well as NPA shall be
done as part of day-end process for the relevant date and the SMA or NPA
classification date shall be the calendar date for which the day end process is
run. Thus, the date of SMA / NPA shall reflect the asset classification status of an
account at the day-end of that calendar date.
Illustration I: If due date of a loan account is March 31, 2021, and full dues are
not received before the bank runs the day-end process for this date, the date of
overdue shall be March 31, 2021. If it continues to remain overdue, then this
account shall get tagged as SMA-1 upon running day-end process on April 30,
2021 i.e. upon completion of 30 days of being continuously overdue. Accordingly,
the date of SMA-1 classification for that account shall be April 30, 2021.
Similarly, if the account continues to remain overdue, it shall get tagged as SMA-
2 upon running day-end process on May 30, 2021 and if continues to remain
overdue further, it shall get classified as NPA upon running day-end process on
June 29, 2021.
17. A bank shall establish appropriate internal systems to eliminate the tendency to
delay or postpone the identification of NPAs, especially in respect of high value
accounts. The bank shall fix a minimum cut-off point to decide what would
6

constitute a high value account depending upon their respective business levels.
The cut-off point should be valid for the entire accounting year.
18. The system should ensure that doubts in asset classification due to any reason
are settled through specified internal channels within one month from the date on
which the account would have been classified as NPA as per extant guidelines.
19. Responsibility and validation levels for ensuring proper asset classification shall
be fixed by the bank.
20. A bank shall implement the following instructions to increasing awareness among
the borrowers:
(1) place consumer education literature on its websites, explaining with
examples, the concepts of date of overdue, special mention account and
non-performing asset classification and upgradation, with specific
reference to day-end process;
(2) consider displaying such consumer education literature in its branches
by means of posters and / or other appropriate media;
(3) ensure that front-line officers educate borrowers about all these
concepts, with respect to loans availed by them, at the time of sanction /
disbursal / renewal of loans.
B. Disclosure Requirements
21. A bank shall make suitable disclosures in its Notes to Accounts as per the
requirements contained in the Reserve Bank of India (Regional Rural Banks –
Financial Statements: Presentation and Disclosures) Directions, 2025.
7

Chapter III - Asset Classification
A. Asset Classification Norms
22. A bank shall classify a loan or an advance as a standard asset or a NPA, as the
case may be.
23. Standard asset is one which does not disclose any problem and which does not
carry more than normal risk attached to the business.
24. A bank shall classify a loan or an advance as NPA if any of the following
conditions are satisfied:
(1) interest and / or instalment of principal remain overdue for a period of
more than 90 days in respect of a term loan;
(2) the account remains 'out of order' in respect of an Overdraft / Cash Credit
(OD / CC);
(3) a working capital borrowal account where irregular drawings are
permitted in the account for a continuous period of 180 days even though
the unit may be working or the borrower's financial position is satisfactory;
(4) the bill remains overdue for a period of more than 90 days in the case of
bills purchased and discounted;
(5) the instalment of principal or interest thereon remains overdue for two
crop seasons for short duration crops;
(6) the instalment of principal or interest thereon remains overdue for one
crop season for long duration crops; and
(7) any amount to be received remains overdue for a period of more than 90
days in respect of other accounts.
25. The asset classification norms specified at sub-paragraphs 24(5) and 24(6) shall
be applicable only to the following agricultural advances:
(1) Loans to individual farmers [including Self Help Groups (SHGs) or Joint
Liability Groups (JLGs), i.e. groups of individual farmers, provided the
bank maintains disaggregated data of such loans], directly engaged in
Agriculture only. This shall include:
8

(i) crop loans to farmers, which shall include traditional / non-
traditional plantations, and horticulture;
(ii) medium and long-term loans to farmers for agriculture (For
example: purchase of agricultural implements and machinery and
other developmental activities undertaken in the farm);
(iii) loans to farmers for pre and post-harvest activities, viz., spraying,
harvesting, grading and transporting of their own farm produce;
(iv) loans to farmers up to ₹60 lakh against pledge / hypothecation of
agricultural produce (including warehouse receipts) for a period not
exceeding twelve months;
(v) loans to distressed farmers indebted to non-institutional lenders;
(vi) loans to farmers under the Kisan Credit Card Scheme;
(vii) loans to small and marginal farmers (SMFs) for purchase of land
for agricultural purposes.
(2) Loans to corporate farmers, farmers' producer organizations / companies
(FPOs) / (FPCs) of individual farmers, partnership firms and co-
operatives of farmers directly engaged in Agriculture only up to an
aggregate limit of ₹4 crore per borrower. This will include:
(i) crop loans to farmers which shall include traditional / non-traditional
plantations and horticulture;
(ii) medium and long-term loans to farmers for agriculture (For
example: purchase of agricultural implements, technological
solutions, machinery and developmental activities undertaken in
the farm);
(iii) loans to farmers for pre and post-harvest activities, viz., spraying,
harvesting, sorting, and transporting of their own farm produce;
(iv) loans up to ₹2.5 crore against pledge / hypothecation of agricultural
produce (including warehouse receipts) for a period not exceeding
twelve months.
9

(3) Loans to Primary Agricultural Credit Societies (PACS), Farmers' Service
Societies (FSS) and Large-sized Adivasi Multi-Purpose Societies
(LAMPS) for on-lending to agriculture.
26. Depending upon the duration of crops raised, the above NPA norms would also
be made applicable to agricultural term loans availed of by an agriculturist.
27. A bank shall ensure that while granting agricultural loans and advances, realistic
repayment schedules are fixed on the basis of cash flows / fluidity with the
borrowers.
28. In respect of agricultural loans, other than those specified in paragraph 25 and
term loans given to non-agriculturists, identification of NPAs would be done on
the same basis as non-agricultural advances which is the 90 days delinquency
norm.
29. 1[***]
30. Asset classification shall be borrower-wise and not facility-wise. All the facilities
granted by a bank to a borrower and investment in all the securities issued by the
borrower shall have to be treated as NPA / Non-Performing Investment (NPI) and
not the particular facility / investment or part thereof which has become irregular.
31. The availability of security or net worth of borrower / guarantor should not be
taken into account for the purpose of treating an advance as NPA or otherwise.
32. The asset classification of borrowal accounts where a solitary or a few credits are
recorded before the balance sheet date should be handled with care and without
scope for subjectivity. Where the account indicates inherent weakness on the
basis of the data available, the account should be deemed as a NPA. In other
genuine cases, the bank shall furnish satisfactory evidence to the Statutory
Auditors / Inspecting Officers about the manner of regularisation of the account
to eliminate doubts on their performing status.
1 Deleted with effect from July 1, 2026, vide Reserve Bank of India (Regional Rural Banks – Income Recognition,
Asset Classification and Provisioning) Amendment Directions, 2026 dated April 29, 2026.
10

B. Specific cases of asset classification
33. Advances against Term Deposits, National Saving Certificates (NSCs), Kisan
Vikas Patras (KVPs), etc.
(1) Advances against term deposits, NSCs eligible for surrender, KVPs and
life insurance policies need not be treated as NPAs, provided adequate
margin is available in the accounts.
(2) Advances against gold ornaments, government securities and all other
securities are not covered by this exemption.
34. The credit facilities backed by guarantee of the Central Government though
overdue shall be treated as NPA only when the Government repudiates its
guarantee when invoked. This exemption is not for the purpose of recognition of
income.
35. State Government guaranteed advances and investments in State Government
guaranteed securities shall attract asset classification and provisioning norms if
interest and / or principal or any other amount due to the bank remains overdue
for more than 90 days.
36. Asset classification of accounts under consortium shall be based on the record
of recovery of the individual member and other aspects having a bearing on the
recoverability of the advances. Where the remittances by the borrower under
consortium lending arrangements are pooled with one consortium member and /
or where the consortium member receiving remittances is not parting with the
share of other members, the account will be treated as not serviced in the books
of the other members and therefore, be treated as NPA. A bank participating in
the consortium shall, therefore, arrange to get its share of recovery transferred
from the lead bank or get an express consent from the lead bank for the transfer
of its share of recovery, to ensure proper asset classification in its books.
2[36A. If a resolution plan is implemented in adherence to the provisions of Chapter IV-
A of Reserve Bank of India (Regional Rural Banks – Resolution of Stressed
Assets) Directions, 2025 dated November 28, 2025, borrower accounts which
2 Inserted with effect from July 1, 2026, vide Reserve Bank of India (Regional Rural Banks – Income Recognition,
Asset Classification and Provisioning) Amendment Directions, 2026 dated April 29, 2026.
11

are classified as 'Standard' may be retained as such upon implementation.
Borrower accounts which may have slipped into NPA between the date of
occurrence of the calamity and implementation of the resolution plan, shall be
upgraded as 'Standard', upon implementation of the resolution plan.
Provided that after implementation of the resolution plan, the subsequent asset
classification shall be governed by the criteria laid out in these Directions.
36B. Accounts which are restructured under paragraph 32J to 32R of the Reserve
Bank of India (Regional Rural Banks – Resolution of Stressed Assets) Directions,
2025 dated November 28, 2025, where a subsequent restructuring is
necessitated under the provisions of Chapter IV-A of the aforesaid Directions,
shall continue to be classified as 'Standard'.]
C. Valuation of Security
37. The current assets and their valuation shall be looked into at the time of Statutory
Audit / Concurrent audit.
38. To bring down divergence arising out of difference in assessment of the value of
security the following shall apply in cases of NPAs with balance of ₹15 lakh and
above:
(1) To enhance the reliability on stock valuations, stock audit at annual
intervals by external agencies may be considered in case of larger
advances.
(2) Collaterals such as immovable properties charged in favour of the bank
should be valued once in three years by valuers appointed as per the
guidelines approved by the Board of Directors.
D. Categories of non-performing assets
39. A bank shall classify non-performing assets further into ‘substandard assets’,
‘doubtful assets’ and ‘loss assets’ categories, as the case may be.
40. An NPA classified as substandard asset shall have well defined credit
weaknesses that jeopardise the liquidation of the debt and are characterised by
the distinct possibility that the bank will sustain some loss, if deficiencies are not
corrected. An asset where the terms of the loan agreement regarding interest and
12

principal have been renegotiated or rescheduled after commencement of
production, should be classified as sub-standard and should remain in such
category for at least two years of satisfactory performance under the renegotiated
or rescheduled terms. In other words, the classification of an asset should not be
upgraded merely as a result of rescheduling, unless there is satisfactory
compliance of the above condition.
41. An NPA classified as doubtful asset has all the weaknesses inherent in assets
that were classified as substandard, with the added characteristic that the
weaknesses make collection or liquidation in full – on the basis of currently known
facts, conditions and values – highly questionable and improbable. Here too, as
in the case of sub-standard assets rescheduling does not entitle a bank to
upgrade the quality of an advance automatically.
42. An NPA classified as loss asset is considered uncollectible and of such little value
that its continuance as a bankable asset is not warranted although there may be
some salvage or recovery value.
43. An asset need not go through the various stages of classification in case of
serious credit impairment and such assets should be straightaway classified as
a doubtful / loss asset as appropriate. Erosion in the value of security shall be
reckoned as significant when the realisable value of security is less than 50 per
cent of the value assessed by the bank or accepted by NABARD at the time of
last inspection, as the case may be. Such NPAs shall be straightaway classified
under 'doubtful category' and provisioning should be made as applicable to
'doubtful assets'. Further, if the realisable value of the security, as assessed by
the bank /approved valuers / RBI / NABARD is less than 10 per cent of the
outstandings in the borrowal accounts, the existence of security should be
ignored and the asset should be straightaway classified as loss asset. It shall be
either written off or fully provided for by the bank.
E. Upgradation of loan accounts classified as NPAs
44. The loan accounts classified as NPAs may be upgraded as ‘standard’ asset only
if entire arrears of interest and principal are paid by the borrower.
13

45. In case of borrowers having more than one credit facility from a bank, loan
accounts shall be upgraded from NPA to standard asset category only upon
repayment of entire arrears of interest and principal pertaining to all the credit
facilities.
46. With regard to upgradation of accounts classified as NPA due to restructuring,
the instructions as specified in the Reserve Bank of India (Regional Rural Banks
– Resolution of Stressed Assets) Directions, 2025 shall be applicable.
F. Automation of Income Recognition, Asset Classification and Provisioning
processes
47. Coverage of automation:
(1) All borrowal accounts, including temporary overdrafts, irrespective of
size, sector or types of limits, shall be covered in the automated
Information Technology (IT) based system (‘System’) for asset
classification, upgradation, and provisioning processes. A bank’s
investments shall also be covered under the System.
(2) Asset classification rules shall be configured in the System, in compliance
with the regulatory stipulations.
(3) Calculation of provisioning requirement shall also be System based as
per pre-set rules for various categories of assets, value of security as
captured in the System and any other regulatory stipulations issued from
time to time on provisioning requirements.
(4) In addition, income recognition / derecognition in case of impaired assets
(NPAs / NPIs) shall be system driven and amount required to be reversed
from the income account should be obtained from the System without
any manual intervention.
(5) The System shall handle both down-grade and upgrade of accounts
through Straight Through Process (STP) without manual intervention.
48. The System based asset classification shall be an ongoing exercise for both
down-gradation and up-gradation of accounts. A bank shall ensure that the asset
classification status is updated as part of day end process. The bank should also
14

be able to generate classification status report at any given point of time with
actual date of classification of assets as NPAs / NPIs.
49. Exceptions to automation: Exceptions may be granted from System driven
classification in certain circumstances, which are expected to be minimum and
temporary. These exceptions shall be from automated classification and not from
income recognition, asset classification and provisioning norms under these
Directions and shall be subject to the conditions specified below.
(1) A bank shall not resort to manual intervention / over-ride in the System
based asset classification process.
(2) In any exceptional circumstance where manual intervention is required
to override the System classification, it must have at least two level
authorisation. Such delegation of powers for authorising the exceptions
should be as per the Board approved policy of the bank and preferably
should be done from the centralised location and suitably documented.
Further, any such intervention shall have appropriate audit trails and
subjected to audit by concurrent and statutory auditors. Detailed reports
of such manual intervention shall be placed before the Audit Committee
regularly.
(3) A bank shall maintain logs for all exceptions i.e. manual interventions /
over-rides including, but not limited to, the date and time stamp;
purpose/reason; user-IDs, name and designation of those making such
manual intervention and necessary account details. These logs shall also
be stored for a minimum period of three years and not be tampered with
during the storage period. These logs shall be system generated.
50. System Requirements and System Audit:
(1) In case a separate application outside the Core Banking Solution (CBS)
is used as the System for NPA / NPI identification and / or classification,
the System must have access to the required data from the CBS and / or
other relevant applications of the bank and the borrower / investment
accounts shall be updated back into the CBS automatically, wherever
applicable, through STP.
15

(2) A bank shall keep the business logic and other parameters /
configurations of the System updated to ensure that the System based
identification, classification, provisioning and income recognition are
strictly in compliance with the regulatory guidelines on an ongoing basis.
(3) There should be periodic system audit, at least once in a year, by Internal
/ External Auditors who are well versed with the system audit both on
system parameters as also from the perspective of compliance to Income
Recognition, Asset Classification and Provisioning norms as per these
Directions.
51. A bank shall adhere to the following baseline requirements while designing and
maintaining the NPA classification System:
(1) Data Input
(i) Data Input in the System by any means should be fully captured
and stored without truncation (For example: time stamp - with date
and time, narration field, or any other text data captured).
(ii) Ensure presence of necessary validation / verification checks in the
System for the user inputs, wherever applicable. Such validations,
among other things should check for data type validations, min/max
value, exceptions, etc.
(iii) Ensure necessary data validation / checks in the system for the
data keyed in manually, wherever applicable. For example: such
validations with master data (or parameters used in asset
classification fed into the System as per the internal policy of the
bank) could prevent issues related to incorrect entries generally
seen (illustrative but not exhaustive list) in margin setting,
moratorium period, security valuation, repayment schedule,
products mapped / linked to different categories of account holders
(as per applicability) etc.
(iv) Data input shall be effected only after authentication and
authorisation.
16

(2) User Access Management
(i) Ensure that all ‘user-IDs’ in the System have unique identification.
If there are any generic user-IDs used, it should only be used under
exceptional circumstances and such ids should be mandatorily
mapped to the employee ID of the user to fix accountability of the
activities carried-out under the generic ID.
(ii) Provide for two-factor or higher level of authentication for the users
of the System.
(iii) Restrict the access to the System on ‘need to have / least privilege’
basis for all users.
(iv) Provide for maker checker authorisation / control for transactions
(an illustrative list of transactions includes updating / modifying the
internal accounts, customer accounts, parameters – both financial
and non-financial that affect the status of the credit portfolio / loan
/ asset) entered in the System. This shall also include transactions
/ activities carried out by administrator accounts in the System. (For
example: activities such as create / update / modify user-IDs, roles,
privileges including access rights to various modules; system
related activities including updates to master data, etc. shall have
at least two individuals to complete the activity).
(3) STP: Provide for STP and support for STP integration with all critical
systems / add-on sub-systems / modules etc., in a seamless and secure
manner for NPA / NPI classification as per extant guidelines on income
recognition, asset classification and provisioning. Such STP mechanism
shall seamlessly take into account all the facilities availed by a given
customer (in case of advances) and all the instruments of an entity
(where bank has made investments in an entity), maintained across
multiple systems of the bank without any manual intervention. Further, a
bank shall also ensure that the updated account status, including asset
classification of the customer accounts, flow to the CBS automatically, if
NPA classification process is performed outside CBS.
17

(4) Back-end Data Access Restriction
(i) Any changes to the data, parameters from backend shall be
avoided. The System should provide for changes to the data items
only through front end (from the application (For example: CBS)
itself and not through the back-end database update) after requisite
authorisation. Audit trails / logs of access, changes to any data,
parameters, if any, should be captured with specific user details in
the system.
(ii) In case of exceptions in rare circumstances, such changes should
be duly approved at an appropriate level and documented.
Provision for Management Information System (MIS) report should
be available to auditors to generate complete list of back-end
access and changes made.
(5) Audit Logs
(i) Provisions of audit trails / logs to capture details of mandatory fields
(that are essential to complete the transaction and essential to
identify the transaction for audit / forensic purpose in the future) of
all the transactions (financial and non-financial) shall be made.
(ii) Logs should be maintained for changing the master data. System
generated activity logs of the users with administrative privileges
should also be maintained.
(iii) Secure storage and retention of logs in encrypted format with
access controls in an archival solution.
(6) System Generated NPAs: All parameters required for NPA / NPI
identification shall be captured in the CBS or associated sub-system(s) /
module(s) meant for NPA / NPI identification / classification of asset
codes as per these Directions. It should provide for separate MIS report
capturing all parameters for NPA / NPI identification. Such parameters
could either be configured in database or application itself as per the
architecture of the System / sub-system.
18

(7) Test Environment: The existing test environment in the bank with dummy
data and functional logic similar to that of the product environment of the
System shall be made available to the supervisors during their onsite
supervisory visit(s) as per the requirements. This shall be required, inter
alia, to perform sample transactions review to assess whether the
solution adheres in complying with regulatory prescriptions in the extant
environment for NPA / NPI identification as per applicability.
52. A bank shall draw up their standard operating procedure (SOP) for System based
NPA classification for usage by the operating staff.
53. The adherence to these instructions will be examined as part of supervisory
assessment of a bank and in case of non-compliance, suitable enforcement
action shall be initiated against the concerned bank.
19

Chapter IV - Provisioning Norms
A. Provisioning Requirements
54. A bank shall make provisions of 0.25 per cent in respect of direct advances to
agricultural and SME sectors in the standard category and 1.00 per cent in
respect of advances to the Commercial Real Estate (CRE) Sector classified as
'standard asset'.
55. In respect of all other loans and advances in the standard category, provisions of
0.40 per cent of the funded outstanding on a portfolio basis shall be made.
56. A general provision of 10 per cent of total outstanding shall be made in respect
of all other loans and advances in the sub-standard category. While arriving at
the provisioning requirement, value of security in any form including term
deposits, NSCs, surrender value of life policies, etc. should not be deducted.
57. The provisions in respect of doubtful assets shall be as follows:
(1) 100 per cent of the extent to which the advance is not covered by the
realisable value of the tangible security to which the bank has a valid
recourse and the realisable value is estimated on a realistic basis.
(2) If over and above Sl. No. (1) above, depending upon the period for which
the asset has remained doubtful, 20 per cent - 100 per cent of the secured
portion (i.e., estimated realisable value of the outstandings) on the
following basis:
Period for which the advance has Provision requirements
been considered as doubtful (in per cent)
Up to one year 20
One to three years 30
More than three years 100
Illustration I:
The outstanding amount as on March 31, 2017: ₹10,000
Realisable value of security: ₹8,000
Period for which the advance has remained in 'doubtful' category as on
March 31, 2007: 2.5 years
Provisioning requirement:
20

As on Asset Provisions on secured Provisions on Total
Classif portion unsecured portion
ication per cent Amount per cent Amount
(₹) (₹) (₹)
March Doubtf 30 2400 100 2000 4400
31, ul
2017 1-3
years
March Doubtf 100 8000 100 2000 10000
31, ul
2018 > 3
years
(3) In case of the advances guaranteed by Deposit Insurance and Credit
Guarantee Corporation (DICGC) / Export Credit Guarantee Corporation
(ECGC), provision shall be made only after the realisable value of
securities is deducted from the outstanding balance.
58. In the case of loss assets, the entire assets should be written off. If the assets are
permitted to remain in the books for any reason, 100 per cent of the outstandings
should be provided for.
59. A bank is urged to voluntarily set apart provisions much above the minimum
prudential levels as a desirable practice.
60. Where provisions are required to be made as per this paragraphs 54 to 59, the
amounts held in Interest Suspense Account shall not be reckoned as part of
provisions. Amounts lying in the Interest Suspense Account shall be deducted
from the relative advances and provisioning as per the norms should be made on
the balances after such deductions.
3[B. Additional specific provisioning in case of resolution plan implemented
under Chapter IV-A of the Reserve Bank of India (Regional Rural Banks – Resolution
of Stressed Assets) Directions, 2025
60A. A bank shall make an additional specific provision of five percent of the
outstanding debt in respect of borrowers, for whom a resolution plan has been
implemented in terms of Chapter IV-A of the Reserve Bank of India (Regional
Rural Banks – Resolution of Stressed Assets) Directions, 2025. The additional
3 Inserted with effect from July 1, 2026, vide Reserve Bank of India (Regional Rural Banks – Income Recognition,
Asset Classification and Provisioning) Amendment Directions, 2026 dated April 29, 2026.
21

specific provisions shall be over and above the applicable prudential provisions
subject to a ceiling of hundred per cent.
60B. For accounts where repeated restructuring is necessitated in terms of Chapter
IV-A of the Reserve Bank of India (Regional Rural Banks – Resolution of
Stressed Assets) Directions, 2025, a bank shall make additional specific
provisioning of five per cent of the outstanding debt for each instance of
restructuring made under the aforesaid Directions. This additional specific
provisioning shall be over and above the applicable prudential provisions
subject to a ceiling of hundred per cent.
60C. The additional specific provisions maintained in terms of paragraph 60A and
60B above may be written back upon the borrower paying at least 20% of the
outstanding debt with the bank, without slipping into NPA post implementation
of the restructuring, and without being subjected to another restructuring.
60D. If the outstanding debt post-restructuring is only in the form of non-fund-based
facilities or facilities in the nature of cash credit / overdraft, the additional
specific provisions made in terms of paragraph 60A and 60B above can be
reversed after one year, post implementation of the restructuring, provided the
borrower was not in default at any point of time during the period concerned.
In case the borrower defaults during the above period, the conditions for
reversal of additional specific provision, mentioned above, shall be tested from
the date of rectification of default.]
22

Chapter V - Income Recognition
A. Income Recognition
61. A bank may recognise income on accrual basis only in respect of credit facilities
which are classified as ‘standard’.
62. For credit facilities which are not classified as ‘standard’, including those
guaranteed by Government, income shall be recognized on actual receipt basis
i.e. cash basis.
63. Once an account is classified as NPA, the entire interest accrued and credited to
income account in the past periods, must be reversed to the extent it remains
unrealised.
64. A bank should not take to the Income account interest on non-performing assets.
Non-booking of interest on non-performing assets is prudent internal accounting
practice to avoid inflation of income by addition of interest which is not likely to be
realised. It does not in any way affect the right of the bank to recover the full
interest due from the borrowers in due course. In other words, it should not be
construed in any manner as waiver of interest due from the borrowers.
65. Notwithstanding paragraph 64, interest on advances against Term Deposits,
NSCs, KVPs and life insurance policies may be taken to income account on the
due date, provided adequate margin is available in the accounts.
66. In cases of loans where moratorium has been granted for repayment of interest,
income may be recognised on accrual basis for accounts which continue to be
classified as ‘standard’. This shall be evaluated against the definition of
‘restructuring’ provided in the Reserve Bank of India (Regional Rural Banks –
Resolution of Stressed Assets) Directions, 2025.
67. In the absence of a clear agreement between the bank and the borrower for the
purpose, the bank should adopt an accounting principle and exercise the right of
appropriation of recoveries in a uniform and consistent manner.
68. If loans with moratorium on payment of interest (permitted at the time of sanction
of the loan) become NPA after the moratorium period is over, the capitalized
23

interest corresponding to the interest accrued during such moratorium period
need not be reversed.
4[68A. Interest income recognition in respect of borrower accounts where resolution
plan has been implemented in terms of Chapter IV-A of the Reserve Bank of
India (Regional Rural Banks – Resolution of Stressed Assets) Directions, 2025
dated November 28, 2025, shall be on accrual basis.
68B. For accounts specified at paragraph 36B of these Directions, interest income
shall be recognized on cash basis.]
4 Inserted with effect from July 1, 2026, vide Reserve Bank of India (Regional Rural Banks – Income Recognition,
Asset Classification and Provisioning) Amendment Directions, 2026 dated April 29, 2026.
24

Chapter VI - Repeal and Other Provisions
A. Repeal and saving
69. With the issue of these Directions, the existing directions, instructions, and
guidelines relating income recognition, asset classification and provisioning as
applicable to Regional Rural Banks stand repealed, as communicated vide
circular DOR.RRC.REC.302/33-01-010/2025-26 dated November 28, 2025. The
directions, instructions and guidelines already repealed vide any of the directions,
instructions, and guidelines listed in the above notification shall continue to
remain repealed.
70. Notwithstanding such repeal, any action taken or purported to have been taken,
or initiated under the repealed Directions, instructions, or guidelines shall
continue to be governed by the provisions thereof. All approvals or
acknowledgments granted under these repealed lists shall be deemed as
governed by these Directions. Further, the repeal of these directions, instructions,
or guidelines shall not in any way prejudicially affect:
(1) any right, obligation or liability acquired, accrued, or incurred thereunder;
(2) any, penalty, forfeiture, or punishment incurred in respect of any
contravention committed thereunder;
(3) any investigation, legal proceeding, or remedy in respect of any such
right, privilege, obligation, liability, penalty, forfeiture, or punishment as
aforesaid; and any such investigation, legal proceedings or remedy may
be instituted, continued, or enforced and any such penalty, forfeiture or
punishment may be imposed as if those directions, instructions, or
guidelines had not been repealed.
B. Application of other laws not barred
71. The provisions of these Directions shall be in addition to, and not in derogation of
the provisions of any other laws, rules, regulations, or directions, for the time
being in force.
25

C. Interpretations
72. For the purpose of giving effect to the provisions of these Directions or in order
to remove any difficulties in the application or interpretation of the provisions of
these Directions, the Reserve Bank may, if it considers necessary, issue
necessary clarifications in respect of any matter covered herein and the
interpretation of any provision of these Directions given by the Reserve Bank shall
be final and binding.
Vaibhav Chaturvedi
(Chief General Manager)
26