भारतीय �रज़वर् बैंक
RESERVE BANK OF INDIA
RBI/DOR/2025-26/159
DOR.STR.REC.No.78/21.04.048/2025-26 November 28, 2025
Reserve Bank of India (Commercial Banks - Transfer and Distribution of Credit
Risk) Directions, 2025
Table of Contents
Chapter I - Preliminary .......................................................................................................2
PART A - TRANSFER OF LOAN EXPOSURES .................................................................... 4
Chapter I - Scope and Definitions .....................................................................................4
Chapter II - General Conditions applicable for all loan transfers .................................. 9
Chapter III -Transfer of Loans which are not in default ................................................ 13
Chapter IV - Transfer of stressed loans ......................................................................... 19
PART B: CO-LENDING ARRANGEMENTS (CLAs) ............................................................ 30
Chapter I - Scope and Definitions ...................................................................................3 0
Chapter II - Prudential Norms ..........................................................................................3 1
PART C - OTHER TYPES OF LENDING AND RISK TRANSFER ARRANGEMENTS ....... 36
Chapter I – Lending under Consortium / Multiple Banking Arrangements ................. 36
Chapter II – Inter-Bank Participations ............................................................................ 37
Chapter III – Transfer of Borrower Accounts at the Request/Instance of Borrower .. 40
PART D: REPEAL AND OTHER PROVISIONS ................................................................... 41
Annex I ..............................................................................................................................4 3
Annex II .............................................................................................................................4 6
Annex III ............................................................................................................................5 3

Introduction
Credit Risk Transfer and Distributions are resorted to by lending institutions for
multitude of reasons ranging from liquidity management and rebalancing their
exposures or strategic sales. RBI has been taking several steps towards its
development through Directions/ Guidelines on transfer of loan exposures, Co-lending
arrangements, inter-bank participations, consortium arrangements and others. In this
regard, the Reserve Bank issued a comprehensive, self-contained set of regulatory
guidelines covering different modes of credit risk transfer and distribution. Accordingly,
in exercise of powers conferred by sections 21 and 35A of the Banking Regulation Act,
1949, the Reserve Bank being satisfied that it is necessary and expedient in the public
interest so to do, hereby issues these Directions hereinafter specified.
Chapter I - Preliminary
A. Short title and commencement
1. These directions shall be called the Reserve Bank of India (Commercial Banks –
Transfer and Distribution of Credit Risk) Directions, 2025.
2. These Directions shall come into effect on the day it is placed on the official website
of the Reserve Bank of India.
Provided that, the Directions under Part B shall come into force from January 1, 2026,
or from any earlier date as decided by a bank as per its internal policy (“effective date”).
Any new Co-Lending Arrangements (CLAs) entered into after the effective date shall
be in compliance with the directions under Part B.
Provided further that existing CLAs (i.e., the lending arrangements executed before
August 06, 2025) and new CLAs entered into prior to the effective date shall be in
compliance with the extant regulations.
B. Applicability
3. These Directions shall be applicable to commercial banks (hereinafter
collectively referred to as 'banks' and individually as a 'bank').
For the purpose of these Directions, ‘Commercial Banks’ mean banking companies
(other than Small Finance Banks, Payment Banks, and Local Area Banks),
2

corresponding new banks, and the State Bank of India, as defined respectively under
clauses (c), (da), and (nc) of Section 5 of the Banking Regulation Act, 1949.
C. Definitions
4. The terms have been defined in the respective Parts of this Direction.
5. All other expressions, unless defined in the respective parts, shall have the
same meaning as have been assigned to them under the Banking Regulation Act,
1949 or the Reserve Bank of India Act, 1934 or any statutory modification or re-
enactment thereto or any other relevant regulation or as used in commercial parlance,
as the case may be.
3

PART A - TRANSFER OF LOAN EXPOSURES
6. Loan transfers are essential to the development of a credit risk market, enabling
diversification of credit risk originating in the financial sector and ensure the availability
of market-based credit products for a diversified set of investors having commensurate
capacity and risk appetite.
Chapter I - Scope and Definitions
A. Applicability and Purpose
7. Banks shall acquire loans only from a transferor specified as a lender in
paragraph 13(4) unless specifically permitted.
8. Overseas branches of banks shall be permitted to:
(1) Acquire only ‘not in default’ loan exposures from a financial entity operating and
regulated as a bank in the host jurisdiction.
(2) Transfer exposures ‘in default’ as well as ‘not in default’ pertaining to resident
entities to a financial entity operating and regulated as a bank in the host jurisdiction.
(3) Transfer exposures ‘in default’ as well as ‘not in default’ pertaining to non-
residents, to any entity regulated by a financial sector regulator in the host jurisdiction.
(4) Such acquisitions or transfers shall be in strict compliance with paragraph 27 of
these directions.
9. No bank shall undertake any loan transfers or acquisitions other than those
permitted under Part A of this direction and in the manner prescribed therein.
Explanation: The above proviso shall be without prejudice to the provisions of Reserve
Bank of India (Commercial Banks – Securitisation Transactions) Directions, 2025;
Master Direction – External Commercial Borrowings, Trade Credits and Structured
Obligations dated March 26, 2019; obtention of guarantees; or products explicitly
permitted in terms of RBI guidelines.
10. The directions in Part A will be applicable to all loan transfers undertaken by the
bank, including transfer of loans through novation or assignment, and loan
participation.
4

Provided that in cases of loan transfers other than loan participation, legal ownership
of the loan shall be mandatorily transferred to the transferee(s) to the extent of
economic interest transferred.
11. These directions shall apply only to banks as transferor(s) or transferee(s) in
loan transfers, unless specifically made applicable to other categories of entities as
transferee(s) as per the specific permissions as per Paragraphs 60 and 64.
12. In respect of transferee(s) other than lenders mentioned in paragraph 13(4) and
Asset Reconstruction Companies (ARCs), which are also financial sector entities, the
prudential norms, including asset classification and provisioning post the transfer shall
be as per the respective regulatory frameworks laid down by the respective financial
sectoral regulators, viz., Securities and Exchange Board of India, Insurance
Regulatory and Development Authority of India, Pension Fund Regulatory and
Development Authority, and International Financial Services Centres Authority.
B. Definitions
13. For the purpose of the Part A of these Directions, following definitions shall
apply:
(1) “credit enhancement” means a contractual arrangement in which an entity
provides some degree of added protection to other parties to a transaction so as to
mitigate the credit risk of their acquired exposures;
(2) “default’ means non-payment of debt (as defined under the Insolvency and
Bankruptcy Code, 2016) when whole or any part or instalment of the debt has become
due and payable and is not paid by the debtor or the corporate debtor, as the case
may be;
Provided that for revolving facilities like cash credit, default would also mean, without
prejudice to the above, the outstanding balance remaining continuously in excess of
the sanctioned limit or drawing power, whichever is lower, for more than 30 days.
(3) “Economic Interest” refers to the risks and rewards that may arise out of loan
exposure through the life of the loan exposure;
(4) “Lenders” shall include the following set of entities,
Scheduled Commercial Banks; Regional Rural Banks; Local Area Banks; Primary
(Urban) Co-operative Banks; State Co-operative Banks/ Central Co-operative Banks;
5

All India Financial Institutions; Small Finance Banks; Non-Banking Finance
Companies (NBFCs) including Housing Finance Companies (HFCs).
Provided that Regional Rural Banks; Local Area Banks; and Primary (Urban) Co-
operative Banks/State Co-operative Banks/ Central Co-operative Banks are permitted
as only transferor(s) of stressed loans under Chapter IV of Part A of these directions
and are not permitted as transferors(s) or transferee(s) in any other type of loan
transfers.
(5) “loan participation” means a transaction through which the transferor transfers all
or part of its economic interest in a loan exposure to transferee(s) without the actual
transfer of the loan contract, and the transferee(s) fund the transferor to the extent of
the economic interest transferred which may be equal to the principal, interest, fees
and other payments, if any, under the transfer agreement;
Provided that the transfer of economic interest under a loan participation shall only be
through a contractual transfer agreement between the transferor and transferee(s) with
the transferor remaining as the lender on record.
Provided further that in case of loan participation, the exposure of the transferee(s)
shall be to the underlying borrower and not to the transferor. Accordingly, the transferor
and transferee(s) shall maintain capital according to the exposure to the underlying
borrower calculated based on the economic interest held by each post such transfer.
The applicable prudential norms, including the provisioning requirements, post the
transfer, shall be based on the above exposure treatment and the consequent
outstanding.
(6) “minimum holding period (MHP)” means the minimum period for which a transferor
must hold the loan exposures before the same is transferred to transferee(s);
(7) “net book value (NBV)” means the funded outstanding in a loan exposure reduced
by the specific provisions made against such exposure;
(8) “permitted transferees” mean the lenders specified below:
Scheduled Commercial Banks, All India Financial Institutions (NABARD, NHB, EXIM
Bank, SIDBI and NaBFID), Small Finance Banks; and Non-Banking Finance
Companies (NBFCs) including Housing Finance Companies (HFCs).
6

(9) “personal loans” refer to loan exposures as defined in the RBI circular
DBR.No.BP.BC.99/08.13.100/2017-18 dated January 4, 2018.
Explanation: A loan shall be categorised as personal loan if it falls within the purview
of the above definition, even if such loans are not explicitly classified so in any
regulatory/ supervisory reporting.
(10) “portfolio” means a set of loan exposures transferred together at a point of time
under the same transfer agreement;
Provided that transfer agreements under which loans are transferred as a portfolio
shall list the details of the individual loan exposures which are transferred as a portfolio.
(11) “stressed loans” mean loan exposures that are classified as non-performing
assets (NPA) or as special mention accounts (SMA);
(12) “time of transfer” means the point at which the associated risks and rewards, to
the extent of economic interest transferred and as documented in the loan
participation, assignment, or novation contract, become binding on the transferor and
transferee.
(13) “transfer” means a transfer of economic interest in loan exposures by the
transferor to the transferee(s), with or without the transfer of the underlying loan
contract, in the manner permitted in Part A of these directions;
Explanation: Consequently, the transferee(s) shall “acquire” the loan exposures
following a loan transfer.
(14) “transferee” means the entity to which the economic interest in a loan exposure
is transferred under Part A of these directions;
Provided that a transferee shall not be a person disqualified in terms of Section 29A
of the Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code, 2016;
Provided further that in case of transfer of loan exposures of borrowers in whose
accounts instances of fraud have been detected by any lender, the transferee(s) shall
neither belong to the existing promoter group of such borrower nor shall be a
subsidiary / associate / related party etc. (domestic as well as overseas) of any person
belonging to the existing promoter group of such borrower.
7

Explanation I: In market parlance, transferee may be alternatively referred to as the
assignee under assignment transactions and participant under loan participations,
wherever applicable.
Explanation II: For the purpose of the second proviso above, the term ‘promoter group’
shall have the same meaning as in the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue
of Capital and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2018; and the term ‘related
party’ shall have the same meaning as in the Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code, 2016.
Explanation III: The responsibility for verifying and establishing that the transferee(s)
comply with the above provisos shall be with the transferor(s).
(15) “transferor” means the entity which transfers the economic interest in a loan
exposure under these directions;
Explanation: In market parlance, transferor may be alternatively referred to as the
assignor under assignment transactions and grantor under loan participations,
wherever applicable
8

Chapter II - General Conditions applicable for all loan transfers
A. General Requirements
14. The bank shall put in place a comprehensive Board approved policy for transfer
and acquisition of loan exposures under these guidelines. These guidelines must, inter
alia, lay down the minimum quantitative and qualitative standards relating to due
diligence, valuation, requisite IT systems for capture, storage and management of
data, risk management, periodic Board level oversight, etc. Further, the policy must
also ensure independence of functioning and reporting responsibilities of the units and
personnel involved in transfer / acquisition of loans from that of personnel involved in
originating the loans. All transactions must meet the requirements as detailed in the
policy.
15. Loan transfers should result in transfer of economic interest without being
accompanied by any change in underlying terms and conditions of the loan contract.
In all cases, if there are any modifications to terms and conditions of the loan contract
during and after transfer (e.g. in take-out financing), the same shall be evaluated
against restructuring as defined in Reserve Bank of India (Commercial Banks –
Resolution of Stressed Assets) Directions, 2025.
16. In loan participation transactions, by design, the legal ownership completely
remains with the transferor even after economic interest has been transferred to
transferee(s). In such cases, the roles and responsibilities of the transferor and
transferee(s) shall be clearly delineated contractually.
17. Lenders referred to in Paragraph 13(4), regardless of whether they are
transferors or otherwise, should not offer credit enhancements or liquidity facilities in
any form in the case of loan transfers.
18. A transferor cannot re-acquire a loan exposure, either fully or partially, that had
been transferred by the entity previously, except as a part of a resolution plan under
the Reserve Bank of India (Commercial Banks – Resolution of Stressed Assets)
Directions, 2025 or as part of a resolution plan approved under the Insolvency and
Bankruptcy Code, 2016.
19. A loan transfer should result in immediate separation of the transferor from the
risks and rewards associated with loans to the extent that the economic interest has
been transferred.
9

In case of any retained economic interest in the exposure by the transferor, the loan
transfer agreement should clearly specify the distribution of the principal and interest
income from the transferred loan between the transferor and the transferee(s).
However, it is reiterated that any retention of economic interest by the transferor must
not result in credit enhancement.
20. The transferee(s) should have the unfettered right to transfer or otherwise
dispose of the loans free of any restraining condition to the extent of economic interest
transferred to them.
(1) The transferee(s) shall have no recourse to the transferor for any expenses or
losses linked to the transferred economic interest except those specifically permitted
under these guidelines.
(2) Further, the transferor / transferee(s) shall not be constrained to obtain consent
from the transferee(s) / transferor, as the case may be, when it comes to resolution or
recovery in respect of the beneficial economic interest retained by or transferred to the
respective entity.
21. The transferor shall have no obligation to re-acquire or fund the re-payment of
the loans or any part of it or substitute loans held by the transferee(s) or provide
additional loans to the transferee(s) at any time except those arising out of breach of
warranties or representations made at the time of transfer.
The transferor should be able to demonstrate that a notice to this effect has been given
to the transferee(s) and that the transferee(s) have acknowledged the absence of such
obligation.
22. Wherever security interest is held by the transferor in trust with the transferee(s)
as the beneficiaries, the transferee(s) shall ensure that a mutually agreed and binding
mechanism for timely invocation of such security interest, if the need arises, has been
properly documented and put in place.
23. The transfer of loans by transferor(s) must not contravene the rights of
underlying obligors and all necessary consents from obligors (including from third
parties), where necessary as per the respective contracts, should have been obtained.
24. Any rescheduling, restructuring or re-negotiation of the terms of the underlying
agreement/s attempted by permitted transferee(s) after the transfer of assets to the
10

transferee(s) shall be as per the provisions of the Reserve Bank of India (Commercial
Banks – Resolution of Stressed Assets) Directions, 2025.
25. A transferor should notify RBI (Department of Supervision) of all instances
where it has replaced loans transferred to a transferee or paid damages arising out of
any representation or warranty.
26. For domestic transactions, transferee(s) should ensure that the transferor has
strictly adhered to the MHP criteria in respect of loans acquired by them, as prescribed
in Chapter III of Part A of these directions.
27. Transfer as well as acquisition of exposures by overseas branches of Indian
banks shall be required to be in compliance with the requirements prescribed in these
directions, without derogation of any other statutory or regulatory provisions, including
those prescribed under Foreign Exchange Management Act, 1999.
Provided that, in jurisdictions which do not have regulations related to MHP, overseas
branches of Indian banks may acquire such exposures, save for those originated in
India, without the requirement of adhering to the MHP criteria.
28. The extant instructions on outsourcing and the applicable provisions of Reserve
Bank of India (Commercial Banks – Know Your Customer) Directions, 2025 shall be
complied with in all cases.
29. In respect of exposures that do not meet the requirements of these directions,
transferee(s) shall maintain capital charge equal to the actual exposure acquired. In
such cases, the transferor shall continue to recognise the transferred loan in its
entirety, as if it was not transferred at all in the first place, and the consideration
received shall be recognised as an advance.
30. There is no restriction on transfer of loan accounts classified as fraud by banks.
Banks can transfer such exposures to permitted transferees as per their board
approved policies in compliance with Paragraph 79.
B. Transferor as servicing facility provider
31. The transferee(s) may engage a servicing facility provider, which may also be
the transferor, to administer or service the acquired exposures.
11

32. If a bank, including a transferor, performs the role of a servicing facility provider
for the transferee(s) after the loan transfer has occurred, it shall ensure that the
following conditions are fulfilled:
(1) The nature, purpose, extent of the facility and all required standards of
performance shall be clearly specified in a written agreement.
(2) The facility is provided on an 'arm's length basis' on market terms and
conditions.
(3) Payment of any fee or other income arising from the role as a servicing facility
provider is not subject to deferral or waiver in a way that would directly or indirectly
provide credit enhancement or liquidity facility.
(4) The duration of the facility is limited to the earliest of the dates on which:
(i) the underlying loans are completely amortised;
(ii) all claims connected with the transferee(s)’ economic interest in the underlying
loans are paid out; or
(iii) the lender's obligations as the servicing facility provider are otherwise
terminated.
(5) There should not be any recourse to the lender beyond the fixed contractual
obligations.
(6) The transferee(s) have the clear right to select an alternative party to provide
the servicing facility.
(7) The bank should be under no obligation to remit funds to the transferee(s) until
it has received funds generated from the underlying loans.
(8) The bank shall hold in trust, on behalf of the transferee(s), the cash flows arising
from the underlying loans and shall avoid co-mingling of these cash flows with its own
cash flows.
Provided that if the above conditions are not satisfied, the transferor bank shall
maintain capital on the loans transferred as if the loans in respect of which servicing
facility is being provided are held by it directly on its books.
12

Chapter III - Transfer of Loans which are not in default
A. General requirements
33. The provisions of this Chapter do not apply to:
(1) inter-bank participations (covered in Chapter II of Part C of these directions);
(2) transfer of loan accounts of borrowers by a lender to other lenders, at the
request/instance of borrower (covered in Chapter III of Part C of these directions);
(3) sale of entire portfolio of loans consequent upon a decision to exit the line of
business completely;
(4) sale of stressed loans; and
(5) any other arrangement /transactions, specifically exempted by the Reserve
Bank of India.
34. The transactions referred to in Paragraph 33 above shall be governed by the
respective regulatory frameworks as contained in Part C of these directions. However,
in all such cases, the provisions of Chapter II of Part A shall continue to apply except
in cases where the respective regulatory framework (as contained in Part C of these
directions) provides for otherwise.
35. Banks should formulate a board approved policy to ensure that the gap between
time of transfer and due-diligence cut-off date should be minimal and no loans in
default is transferred under provisions of this Chapter.
36. A transferor can transfer a single loan or a part of such loan or a portfolio of
such loans to permitted transferees through assignment or novation or a loan
participation contract.
37. In cases where loan transfers result in a change of lender of record under a
loan agreement, the transferor and transferee(s) should ensure that the existing loan
agreement has suitable enabling provisions including consent by the underlying
borrower that allow for such transactions by laying down the required ground rules.
38. Transferor’s retention of economic interest, if any, in the loans transferred
should be supported by legally valid documentation. A legal opinion regarding the
following, at a minimum, should also be kept on record by the transferor:
(1) legal validity of amount of economic interest retained by the transferor;
13

(2) the transferor not retaining any risk and rewards associated with the loans to
the extent transferred to the transferee(s);
(3) the arrangement does not interfere with transferee(s)’ rights and rewards
associated with the loans to the extent transferred to it, except to the extent of
collaborative action contractually agreed between the transferor and the transferee(s)
for enforcement of security, if any, including the scenarios in which the security interest
is held by the transferor in trust for the trustees; and
(4) the arrangement does not result in the transferor becoming an agent, trustee,
or fiduciary of the transferee(s), except:
(i) providing servicing facilities extended by the transferor, if any, post such
transfer, to the extent of rights to cash flows in respect of the transferee(s); and
(ii) collaborative action contractually agreed between the transferor and
transferee(s) in relation to enforcement of security including scenarios in which
the security interest is held by the transferor in trust for the transferee(s).
39. There shall not be any difference in the criteria for credit underwriting applied
by the transferor to exposures transferred and those held or retained on their book. To
this end, similar processes for approving and, where relevant, amending, renewing
and monitoring of credit facilities extended should be applied by the transferor for all
the loan exposures originated by it.
40. The transfer shall be only on cash basis and the consideration shall be received
not later than at the time of transfer of loans. The provisions of this paragraph shall be
without derogation of the provisions of paragraph 19, which pertains to retained
economic interest.
(1) The transfer consideration should be arrived at in a transparent manner on an
arm's length basis.
41. The due diligence in respect of the loans cannot be outsourced by the
transferee(s) and should be carried out by its own staff with the same rigour and as
per the same policies as would have been done for originating any loan.
42. The above due diligence requirements shall be applicable at the level of each
loan. In case of loans acquired as a portfolio, if a transferee is unable to perform due
diligence at the individual loan level for the entire portfolio but can perform due
14

diligence at the individual loan level for not less than one-third of the portfolio by value
and number of loans in the portfolio, then due diligence may be performed at the
portfolio level for the remaining, and the transferor has to retain at least 10 per cent of
economic interest in the transferred loans.
Explanation 1: If a transfer involves multiple transferees, the minimum retention
requirement by the transferor, if any of the transferees is unable to perform due
diligence at the individual loan level, shall be on the entire amount of transferred loans,
including the portions transferred to transferees who are able to perform due diligence
at the individual loan level.
Explanation 2: The treatment in paragraph 42 is only to facilitate transfer of loans
where due to operational or other constraints, the transferee does not conduct a loan
level due diligence. This is without prejudice to the requirement under paragraph 52 to
apply prudential norms at the individual loan level.
43. Bank needs to monitor on an ongoing basis and in a timely manner performance
information on the loans acquired, including through conducting periodic stress tests
and sensitivity analyses, and take appropriate action required, if any. The action may,
inter alia, include modification to exposure ceilings in respect of certain types of asset
classes, change in ceilings applicable to transferor, etc. For this purpose, transferee(s)
should put in place formal policies and procedures appropriate to and commensurate
with the risk profile of the loans acquired. Such procedures should be as rigorous as
that followed by them for portfolios of similar loans directly originated by them. The
information required for these procedures, if not collected directly by the banks and
obtained from the servicing facility agent, if any, should be certified by the authorized
officials of the servicing facility agent.
44. Depending upon the size of the portfolio, credit monitoring procedures may
include verification of the information submitted by the servicing facility agent’s
concurrent and internal auditors.
(1) The servicing facility agreement should provide for such verifications by the
auditors of the transferee(s), and wherever applicable, the transferor.
(2) All relevant information and audit reports should be available for verification by
the supervisors from RBI during the supervision of the transferee(s) and transferor.
15

B. Minimum holding period (MHP)
45. The transferor can transfer loans only after a minimum holding period (MHP),
as prescribed below, which is counted from the date of registration of the underlying
security interest with Central Registry of Securitisation Asset Reconstruction and
Security Interest of India (CERSAI):
(1) Three months in case of loans with tenor of up to 2 years;
(2) Six months in case of loans with tenor of more than 2 years.
Provided that in case of loans where security does not exist or security cannot be
registered with CERSAI, the MHP shall be calculated from the date of first repayment
of the loan.
Provided further that in case of transfer of project loans, the MHP shall be calculated
from the date of commencement of commercial operations of the project being
financed.
Provided further that in case of loans acquired from other entities by a transferor, such
loans cannot be transferred before completion of six months from the date on which
the loan was taken into the books of the transferor.
Provided further that the transfer of receivables, acquired as part of ‘factoring
business’ as defined under the Factoring Regulation Act, 2011, will be exempted from
the above specified MHP requirement subject to fulfilment of following conditions:
(i) The residual maturity of such receivables, at the time of transfer, should not be
more than 90 days, and
(ii) As specified under Paragraphs 14 and 41 of these directions, the transferee
conducts proper credit appraisal of the drawee of the bill, before acquiring such
receivables
46. The above MHP requirement is not applicable to loans transferred by the
arranging bank to other lenders under a syndication arrangement.
C. Capital Adequacy and Other prudential norms
47. Any loss or profit arising because of transfer of loans, which is realised, should
be accounted for accordingly and reflected in the Profit & Loss account of the transferor
for the accounting period during which the transfer is completed. However, unrealised
16

profits, if any, arising out of such transfers, shall be deducted from CET 1 capital for
meeting regulatory capital adequacy requirements till the maturity of such loans.
48. In case of transfer of a pool of loans, the transferee(s), and the transferor(s) in
case of retention of economic interest, should maintain borrower-wise accounts. Thus,
the exposures of the transferor(s) and the transferee(s) would be to the individual
obligors in a pool of loans.
49. The capital adequacy treatment for loans acquired, in respect of the economic
interest held by the transferor and transferee(s) post such transfer, will be as per the
instructions applicable to loans directly originated by the lender.
50. Transferee(s) may, if they so desire, have the pools of loans externally rated
before acquiring so as to have a third-party view of the credit quality of the pool in
addition to their own due diligence. However, such external rating shall be done ex-
post the transferee(s)’ due diligence and such rating cannot substitute for the due
diligence that the transferee(s) are required to perform.
51. The transferee(s), as well as transferor(s) shall apply the extant income
recognition, asset classification and provisioning as well as exposure norms, on
individual obligor basis in all cases to the extent of retained economic interest.
52. In case of pool of loans acquired, transferee(s) should put in place mechanisms
to enable application of relevant prudential norms on individual obligor basis. Such
mechanisms may also include relying on the details obtained from the servicing facility
provider. However, such mechanisms must provide for adequate checks by the
transferee(s)’ concurrent auditors, internal auditors and statutory auditors. All relevant
information and audit reports should be available for verification by the supervisors
from RBI during supervision of the transferee(s).
53. For permitted transferees, the acquired loans will be carried at acquisition cost
unless it is more than the outstanding principal at the time of the transfer, in which
case the premium paid, should be amortised based on straight line method or effective
interest rate method, as considered appropriate by the individual permitted transferee.
However, the outstanding/unamortised premium need not be deducted from capital.
54. In cases where a transferor makes representations and warranties concerning
loans transferred, the transferor will not be required to hold capital against such
representations and warranties provided the following conditions are satisfied:
17

(1) Any representation or warranty is provided only by way of a formal written
agreement;
(2) The representation or warranty refers to an existing state of facts that is capable
of being verified by the transferor at the time the loans are transferred;
(3) The representation or warranty is not open-ended and, in particular, does not
relate to the future creditworthiness of the loans/underlying borrowers;
(4) The exercise of a representation or warranty, if any, requiring a transferor to
replace loans (or any parts thereof) transferred, on grounds covered in the
representation or warranty, must be:
(i) undertaken within 30 days of the transfer of loans; and
(ii) conducted on the same terms and conditions as the original transfer.
Provided that upon such replacement, the transferor shall apply the asset
classification and provisioning norms as if the reacquired exposures had not been
transferred in the first place.
(5) A transferor that is required to pay damages for breach of representation or
warranty can do so provided the agreement to pay damages meets the following
conditions:
(i) the onus of proof for breach of representation or warranty remains at all times
with the party so alleging;
(ii) the party alleging the breach serves a written Notice of Claim on the transferor,
specifying the basis for the claim; and
(iii) damages are limited to losses directly incurred as a result of the breach.
18

Chapter IV- Transfer of stressed loans
A. General Requirements
55. The instructions contained in this Chapter would cover transfer of stressed
loans, including transfer to ARCs.
56. The transfer of stressed loans must be done through assignment or novation
only; loan participation is not permitted in the case of stressed loans.
57. The Board approved policies of banks on transfer and / or acquisition of
stressed loans shall, inter alia, cover the following aspects:
(1) Norms and procedure for transfer or acquisition of such loans;
(2) Valuation methodology to be followed to ensure that the realisable value of
stressed loans, including the realisability of the underlying security interest, if available,
is reasonably estimated;
(3) Delegation of powers to various functionaries for taking decision on the transfer
or acquisition of the loans;
(4) Stated objectives for acquiring stressed assets;
(5) Risk premium to be applied for the purpose of paragraph 73; etc.
58. The policy on transfer of stressed loans shall be based on the following
principles:
(1) The process of identification of stressed loans beyond a specified value, as may
be determined by a bank’s policy, for transfer shall follow a top-down approach i.e.,
the head office/corporate office of the bank shall be actively involved in identification
of stressed loans for transfer;
(2) At a minimum, all loans classified as NPA above a threshold amount decided
by the Board/Board Committee shall be reviewed by the Board/Board Committee at
periodic intervals and a view, with documented rationale, be taken on transfer or
otherwise. The loans identified for transfer shall be listed for the purpose of transfer as
indicated above.
59. Transferors should have clear policies with regard to valuation of loan
exposures proposed to be transferred. The basis or the grounds which will determine
the type of valuation used - internal or external - must be clearly specified in the policy.
19

The discount rate used by the transferor in the internal valuation exercise shall also be
spelt out in the policy. This may be either cost of equity or average cost of funds or
opportunity cost or some other relevant rate, subject to a floor of the contracted interest
rate charged. However, in case the credit exposure being transferred (without netting
for provisions), singly, jointly, or severally, is ₹100 crore or more, the transferor shall
obtain two external valuation reports. The cost of valuation exercise, external or
otherwise, shall be borne by the transferor.
60. In general, bank shall transfer stressed loans, including through bilateral sales,
only to permitted transferees and ARCs.
61. The manner of transfer must be in terms of the Board approved policy of the
transferor. Banks may also use e-auction platforms, wherever available, for
transferring their loans.
62. However, when negotiated on a bilateral basis, such negotiations must
necessarily be followed by an auction through Swiss Challenge method if the
aggregate exposure (including investment exposure) of lenders to the borrower/s
whose loan is being transferred is ₹100 crore or more. In all other cases, the bilateral
negotiations shall be subject to the price discovery and value maximisation
approaches adopted by the transferor as part of the Board approved policy described
in paragraph 57, which may also include Swiss Challenge method. The broad
guidelines to be followed for the Swiss Challenge Method are given in paragraph 90
to paragraph 93.
Provided that in case of transfer of stressed loans undertaken as a resolution plan
under the Reserve Bank of India (Commercial Banks – Resolution of Stressed Assets)
Directions, 2025 with the approval of signatories to the intercreditor agreement (ICA)
representing 75 per cent by value of total outstanding credit facilities (fund based as
well non-fund based) and 60 per cent of signatories by number, for the exit of all
signatories to the ICA from the stressed loan exposure, Swiss Challenge method
would be mandatory irrespective of the above exposure threshold.
63. The transferor shall ensure that subsequent to transfer of the stressed loans,
they do not assume any operational, legal or any other type of risks relating to the
transferred loans including additional funding or commitments to the borrower /
transferee(s) with reference to the loan transferred. Subsequently, fresh exposure may
20

be taken on the borrower after a cooling period laid down in the respective Board
approved policy of the transferor, which in any case, shall not be less than 12 months
from the date of such transfer.
64. Notwithstanding the stipulations in paragraph 60 to paragraph 63, if the transfer
of stressed loans are undertaken as a resolution plan under the Reserve Bank of India
(Commercial Banks – Resolution of Stressed Assets) Directions, 2025 resulting in an
exit of all lenders specified at Paragraph 13(4) from the stressed loan exposure, such
transfer is permitted to any class of entities, including a corporate entity, that are
permitted to take on loan exposures in terms of a statutory provision or under the
regulations issued by a financial sector regulator.
(1) Explanation: The class of entities to which lenders are permitted to transfer
stressed loan exposures include (a) Commercial Banks excluding Local Area Banks,
Regional Rural Banks and Small Finance Banks; (b) AIFIs, (c) NBFCs including HFCs;
(d) ARCs registered with the Reserve Bank under Section 3 of the SARFAESI Act
2002; (e) A company, as defined in sub-section (20) of Section 2 of the Companies
Act, 2013 other than a financial service provider as defined in sub-section (17) of
Section 3 of the Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code, 2016. Acquisition of loan exposures
by such companies shall be subject to the relevant provisions of the Companies Act,
2013.
(2) The class of entities will be updated as and when any new class of entities is
permitted by the respective financial sector regulators.
(3) In case such transferee(s) are neither ARC nor permitted transferee, the
transfer shall be additionally subject to the following conditions:
(i) The transferee entity should be incorporated in India or registered with a
financial sector regulator in India (Securities and Exchange Board of India,
Insurance Regulatory and Development Authority of India, Pension Fund
Regulatory and Development Authority, and International Financial Services
Centers Authority).
(ii) The transferee(s) should not be classified as a non-performing account (NPA)
by any lending institution at the time of such transfer;
(iii) The transferee(s) should not fund the loan acquisition through loans from
lenders specified at paragraph 13(4).
21

(iv) The lenders specified at paragraph 13(4) should not take any credit/investment
exposure apart from working capital facilities (which are not in the nature of term
loans) to the borrower whose loan account is transferred, for at least three years
from the date of such transfer.
Provided that the working capital facilities are sanctioned by the banks which
are not transferors.
(v) Further, for at least three years from the date of such transfer, the lenders
specified at paragraph 13(4) should not take any credit/investment exposure to
the transferee(s) for deployment, either directly or indirectly, into the operations
of the borrower. For this purpose, borrower shall mean the legal entities to which
the transferor(s) had exposure which was transferred to the transferee(s) as a
part of the resolution plan, and may include, but is not limited to, a special
purpose vehicle having a legal-entity status set up for a project.
Explanation: The entity permitted to take on loan exposures by its statutory or
regulatory framework, as referred to in this paragraph, would have to be
separately enabled by its regulatory or statutory framework for taking on loan
exposures, and then listed in the class of entities by the Reserve Bank. The
above paragraph merely permits the lender to transfer stressed loans under a
resolution plan to such entities which are already permitted to take on loan
exposures. The respective financial sector regulators shall put in place a
framework for this purpose in consultation with the Reserve Bank.
65. The transferor(s) must provide adequate time for due diligence by prospective
acquirers, which may vary as per the size of the loan.
66. The loan transfer agreement shall clearly specify that in the event an ICA is
required to be signed in terms of the Reserve Bank of India (Commercial Banks –
Resolution of Stressed Assets) Directions, 2025 the transferee shall sign the ICA as
and when required.
67. The transferor(s) shall ensure that no transfer of a stressed loan is made at a
contingent price whereby in the event of shortfall in the realization of the agreed price,
the transferor(s) would have to bear a part of the shortfall.
68. The transferor shall transfer the stressed loans to transferee(s) other than ARCs
only on cash basis. The entire transfer consideration should be received not later than
22

at the time of transfer of loans, and the loan can be taken out of the books of the
transferor only on receipt of the entire transfer consideration. If the transfer to
transferee(s) other than ARCs is at a price below the net NBV at the time of transfer,
the shortfall shall be debited to the profit and loss account of the year in which transfer
has taken place. If the sale consideration is for a value higher than the NBV at the time
of transfer, the excess provisions may be reversed.
69. The bank is permitted to treat a pool of stressed loans acquired on a portfolio
basis as a single asset in their books provided that the pool consists of homogeneous
personal loans. Homogeneity should be assessed on the basis of common risk drivers,
including similar risk factors and risk profiles. In all other cases, the stressed loans
acquired shall be treated as separate assets for the purpose of prudential
requirements such as asset classification, capital computation, income recognition etc.
Explanation: If a portfolio of stressed homogeneous personal loans acquired is treated
as a single asset by the transferee, the portfolio shall be treated as a single asset for
the purpose of Paragraph 73 as well.
70. The reporting obligation, if any, to Credit Information Companies in respect of
the stressed loans acquired will be with the transferee(s), if the latter is a credit
institution as defined in sub-section (f) of Section 2 of the Credit Information
Companies (Regulation) Act, 2005.
71. If the transferee(s), except ARCs, have no existing exposure to the borrower
whose stressed loan account is acquired, the acquired stressed loan shall be classified
as “Standard” by the transferee(s). Thereafter, the asset classification status of the
loan acquired, shall be determined by the record of recovery in the books of the
transferee(s) with reference to cash flows estimated at the time of transfer of the loan.
72. In case the transferee(s), except ARCs, have existing exposure to the borrower
whose stressed loan account is acquired, the asset classification of the acquired
exposure shall be the same as the existing asset classification of the borrower with the
transferee. This treatment shall be applicable even if such acquisition is pursuant to
the transferee being a successful resolution applicant under the Insolvency and
Bankruptcy Code, 2016.
73. The bank acquiring stressed loans shall make provisions for such loans as per
the asset classification status in its books upon acquisition. Regardless of the asset
23

classification, if the net present value of the cash flows estimated while acquiring the
loan is less than the consideration paid for acquiring the loan, provisions shall be
maintained to the extent of the difference. For this purpose, the discount factor shall
be the actual interest rate charged to the borrower as per the original loan contract
plus a risk premium to be determined as per the transferee’s Board approved policy
considering the asset classification of the loan on the books of the transferor. The risk
premium will be subject to a floor of 3 per cent.
74. In the case of ARC, the asset classification of stressed loans acquired by it and
the associated provisions to be maintained shall be continued to be guided by the
extant instructions as applicable to them in this regard.
75. The bank shall hold the acquired stressed loans in its books for a period of at
least six months before transferring to other lenders. Additionally, banks are generally
prohibited from acquiring loans that had been transferred by other lenders as stressed
loans in the previous six months.
Provided that this paragraph shall not apply if the transfer of a stressed loan is to an
ARC or is undertaken as a resolution plan under the Reserve Bank of India
(Commercial Banks – Resolution of Stressed Assets) Directions, 2025 with the
approval of signatories to the ICA representing 75 per cent by value of total outstanding
credit facilities (fund based as well non-fund based) and 60 per cent of signatories by
number for the exit of all signatories to the ICA from the stressed loan exposure.
B. Additional requirements for transfer of NPAs
76. The transferor shall continue to pursue the staff accountability aspects as per
the existing instructions in respect of the NPAs transferred to other lenders.
77. In respect of NPAs acquired from other lenders, the cash flows received by the
transferee from holding such asset shall first be used to amortise the funded
outstanding in the books of the transferee in respect of the loan till the acquisition cost
is recovered. The cash flows in excess of the acquisition cost, if any, can be recognised
as profit.
78. The bank shall assign 100% risk weight to the NPAs acquired from other
lenders as long as the loans are classified as ‘standard’ upon acquisition. If the loans
are classified as NPA, risk weights as applicable to NPA shall be applicable.
24

C. Transfer of loans to Asset Reconstruction Companies
79. Subject to the provisions of the Reserve Bank of India (Asset Reconstruction
Companies) Directions, 2025 all stressed loans which are in default in the books of the
transferors are permitted to be transferred to ARCs. This shall include loan exposures
classified as fraud as on the date of transfer provided that the responsibilities of the
transferor with respect to continuous reporting, monitoring, filing of complaints with law
enforcement agencies and proceedings related to such complaints shall also be
transferred to the ARC. The transfer of such loan exposures to an ARC, however, does
not absolve the transferor from fixing the staff accountability as required under the
extant instructions on frauds.
80. In case of specific stressed loans, where it is considered necessary,
transferor(s) shall be free to enter into agreement with the ARC to share, in an agreed
proportion, any surplus realised by the ARC from the concerned stressed loan. In such
cases, the terms of transfer should provide for a report from the ARC to the
transferor(s) on the value realised from the loan. Transferor(s) shall not account for
the profit until it has materialised.
81. When the stressed loan is transferred to ARC at a price below the NBV at the
time of transfer, bank shall debit the shortfall to the profit and loss account for the year
in which the transfer has taken place. A bank is permitted to use countercyclical or
floating provisions for meeting any shortfall on transfer of stressed loan when the
transfer is at a price below the NBV.
82. On the other hand, when the stressed loan is transferred to an ARC for a value
higher than the NBV at the time of transfer, bank shall reverse the excess provision on
transfer to the profit and loss account in the year the amounts are received and only
when the sum of cash received by way of initial consideration and / or redemption or
transfer of Security Receipts (SR) / Pass Through Certificates (PTCs)/ other securities
issued by ARCs is higher than the NBV of the loan at the time of transfer. Further,
such reversal shall be limited to the extent to which cash received exceeds the NBV
of the loan at the time of transfer.
(1) Notwithstanding the provisions contained in paragraph 82, the bank can reverse
the entire excess provision [viz. sale consideration (-) NBV] to the Profit and Loss
25

Account in the year of transfer if the sale consideration comprises only of cash and
SRs guaranteed by the Government of India.
Provided that, the non-cash component of the excess provision [viz. excess provision
(-) cash received at the time of transfer] shall be deducted from CET 1 capital, and no
dividends shall be paid out of this component.
83. Investments by lenders in SRs / PTCs / other securities issued by ARCs shall
be valued periodically by reckoning the Net Asset Value (NAV) declared by the ARC
based on the recovery ratings received for such instruments.
Provided that when transferors invest in the SRs/PTCs issued by ARCs in respect of
the stressed loans transferred by them to the ARC, the transferors shall carry the
investment in their books on an ongoing basis, until its transfer or realization, at lower
of the redemption value of SRs arrived based on the NAV as above, and the NBV of
the transferred stressed loan at the time of transfer.
84. If the investment by the transferor in SRs issued against loans transferred by it
is more than 10 percent of all SRs issued against the transferred asset, then the
valuation of the SRs on the books of the transferor shall be the lower of the following:
(1) value arrived at in terms of paragraph 83; and
(2) face value of the SRs reduced by the notional provisioning rate applicable if the
loans had continued on the books of the transferor.
85. (1) Notwithstanding the provisions contained in paragraph 84, or the proviso to
paragraph 83, SRs guaranteed by the Government of India shall be valued periodically
by reckoning the Net Asset Value (NAV) declared by the ARC based on the recovery
ratings received for such instruments.
(2) However, any unrealized gain recognized in the Profit and Loss Account on
account of fair valuation of such investments shall be deducted from CET 1 capital,
and no dividends shall be paid out of such unrealized gains.
(3) Any SRs outstanding after the final settlement of the government guarantee or
the expiry of the guarantee period, whichever is earlier, shall be valued at ₹1.
(4) In the event of the SRs being converted to any other form of instruments as part
of resolution, then the valuation and provisioning thereof, for such instruments shall be
26

governed by the provisions as laid down under Reserve Bank of India (Commercial
Banks – Resolution of Stressed Assets) Directions, 2025.
86. SRs/PTCs which are not redeemed as at the end of the resolution period (i.e.,
five years or eight years as the case may be) shall be treated as loss asset in books
of the lender and fully provided for.
87. The valuation, classification and other norms applicable to investment in non-
SLR instruments prescribed by RBI from time to time shall be applicable to lender’s
investment in debentures/ bonds/ SRs /PTCs issued by ARC. However, if any of the
above instruments issued by ARC is limited to the actual realisation of the financial
assets assigned to the instruments in the concerned scheme, the bank shall reckon
the NAV obtained from ARC from time to time, for valuation of such investments.
88. There is no prohibition on banks from taking over standard accounts from
ARCs. Accordingly, in cases where ARCs have successfully implemented a resolution
plan for the stressed loans acquired by them, banks may, at its discretion and with
appropriate due diligence, take over such loans after the period equivalent to the
‘monitoring period’ as defined in Reserve Bank of India (Commercial Banks –
Resolution of Stressed Assets) Directions, 2025, provided that the account performed
satisfactorily, as defined in the circular ibid during the said ‘monitoring period’. Banks
shall lay down a board approved policy containing various aspects governing such
take overs viz., type of assets that may be taken over, due diligence requirements,
viability criteria, performance requirement of asset, etc. as a part of the requirements
under Paragraph 57. A bank cannot at any point of time acquire from ARCs the loan
exposures they have themselves earlier transferred.
89. Where stressed loans are taken over by ARCs as agents for recovery in
exchange for a fee, the loans will not be removed from the books of the transferors but
realisations as and when received shall be credited to the loan accounts. The
transferors shall continue making provisions for the loan in the normal course.
D. Price Discovery through Swiss Challenge Method
90. Subject to the requirements under Paragraph 62, the bank shall put in place a
board approved policy on adoption of Swiss Challenge Method for transfer of their
stressed loans.
27

(1) The policy should specify the conditions under which bank(s) may opt for Swiss
Challenge method, which could be based on parameters such as a tolerance limit for
extent of haircut required by the lender(s) in the base-bid (as specified in Paragraph
93), for instance, or any objective parameter identified by the bank(s)’ Board.
(2) The policy should also specify the minimum mark-up over the base-bid required
for the challenger bid (as specified in Paragraph 93) to be considered by the bank(s),
which in any case, shall not be less than five per cent and shall not be more than 15
per cent. For this purpose, mark-up shall be the difference between the challenger bid
and the base-bid expressed as a percentage of the base-bid.
91. In case of transfer of stressed loans undertaken as a resolution plan under
the Reserve Bank of India (Commercial Banks – Resolution of Stressed Assets)
Directions, 2025 with the approval of signatories to the ICA, the minimum mark-up
over the base-bid required for the challenger bid to be considered by the lenders
specified at Paragraph 13(4) above, shall be decided with the approval of signatories
to the ICA representing 75 per cent by value of total outstanding credit facilities (fund
based as well non-fund based) and 60 per cent of signatories by number. The above
decision will prevail over any individual policy of any of the signatories to the ICA.
92. On an ongoing basis, the bank should identify the stressed loans which will be
offered for transfer and an authenticated list of such loans shall be maintained by the
lenders. The list may, at the discretion of the lender, be disclosed to prospective bidder
on entering into confidentiality agreement.
93. The broad contours of the Swiss Challenge Method are as under:
(1) A prospective transferee interested in acquiring a specific stressed loan may
offer a bid to the bank(s), which shall be termed as the base-bid.
(2) The bank(s) shall then publicly call for counter bids from other perspective
buyers, on comparable terms, by disclosing the essential elements of the base-bid and
also clearly specifying the minimum mark-up (as specified in Paragraph 90) that would
be acceptable.
(3) If no counter bid crossed the minimum mark-up specified in the invitation, the
base-bid becomes the winning bid.
28

(4) If counter bid(s) cross the minimum mark-up specified in the invitation, the
highest counter bid becomes the challenger bid. The prospective transferee who
provided the base-bid is then invited to match the challenger bid. If the prospective
transferee who provided the base-bid either matches the challenger bid or bids higher
than the challenger bid, such bid shall become the winning bid; else, the challenger
bid shall be the winning bid.
(5) The bank(s) will then have the following two options:
(i) Transfer the loan to winning bidder, as determined above;
(ii) If the bank decides not to transfer the loan to winning bidder, the bank will be
required to make immediate provision on the account to the extent of the higher
of the following:
(a) The discount on the book value quoted in the challenger bid, and
(b) The provisioning required as per extant asset classification and
provisioning norms.
E. Disclosures and Reporting
94. The banks should be guided by Reserve Bank of India (Commercial Banks –
Financial Statements: Presentation and Disclosures) Directions, 2025 for all disclosure
related requirements.
95. Banks shall report each loan transfer transaction undertaken under these
directions to a trade reporting platform as notified by the Reserve Bank. The detailed
instructions in this regard will be issued separately. In anticipation of the same, bank
shall maintain a database of loan transfer transactions with adequate MIS concerning
each transaction till the reporting platform is notified and the related instructions are
issued.
29

PART B: CO-LENDING ARRANGEMENTS (CLAs)
Chapter I - Scope and Definitions
96. The instructions of this Part shall be applicable to Co-Lending Arrangements
(CLAs) entered into by Commercial Banks with the following set of regulated entities
(REs):
(1) Other Commercial Banks (excluding Small Finance Banks, Local Area Banks, and
Regional Rural Banks);
(2) All-India Financial Institutions; and,
(3) Non-Banking Financial Companies (including Housing Finance Companies).
97. Digital lending arrangements shall continue to be governed by Reserve Bank
of India (Commercial Banks – Credit Facilities) Directions, 2025 as amended from time
to time.
Provided that, any digital lending arrangement involving co-lending by the REs shall,
without derogation to Reserve Bank of India (Commercial Banks – Credit Facilities)
Directions, 2025, be guided by the provisions of these Directions.
98. The instructions of this part shall not apply to loans sanctioned under multiple
banking, consortium lending, or syndication.
99. Save as otherwise permitted in terms of these Directions, no bank shall enter
into any CLA which is not compliant with these Directions.
100. Definitions: For the purpose of these Directions, CLA refers to an
arrangement, formalised through an ex-ante agreement, between a RE which is
originating the loans (‘originating RE’) and another RE which is co-lending (‘partner
RE’), to jointly fund a portfolio of loans, comprising of either secured or unsecured
loans, in a pre-agreed proportion, involving revenue and risk sharing.
30

Chapter II - Prudential Norms
A. General Conditions
101. Banks under a CLA shall be required to retain a minimum 10 per cent share of
the individual loans in its books.
102. The credit policy of banks shall suitably incorporate provisions relating to CLAs,
including the internal limit for the proportion of their lending portfolio under CLAs; target
borrower segments; due diligence of the partner entities; customer service and
grievance redressal mechanism.
103. The agreement to be entered between the CLA partners shall include detailed
terms and conditions of the arrangement; the criteria for selection of borrowers;
specific product lines and areas of operation; fees payable for lending services, if any;
provisions related to segregation of responsibilities; time-frame for exchanging critical
information; customer interface and customer protection issues and grievance
redressal mechanism.
Explanation: Lending service shall refer to the set of activities related to lending such
as customer acquisition, underwriting, pricing, servicing, monitoring, and recovery of
specific loan or loan portfolio, etc. performed by the REs or their agents (in conformity
with extant outsourcing guidelines issued by the Reserve Bank).
104. The loan agreement signed with the borrower shall make an upfront disclosure
regarding the segregation of the roles and responsibilities (such as sourcing, and
servicing) of concerned REs, including clear identification of the entity being the single
point of interface with the customer. Any subsequent change in customer interface
shall only be done after prior intimation to the borrower. The loan-agreement shall also
appropriately disclose suitable provisions related to customer protection, and
grievance redressal mechanism.
105. All required details of CLA shall be disclosed appropriately to the concerned
borrower as laid down on ‘Key Facts Statement (KFS) for Loans & Advances’ under
Reserve Bank of India (Commercial Banks – Responsible Business Conduct)
Directions, 2025.
106. Banks engaging in the CLA for loans eligible to be classified under priority
sector lending in terms of Master Directions - Reserve Bank of India (Priority Sector
31

Lending – Targets and Classification) Directions, 2025 (as amended from time to time),
can claim priority sector status in respect of their share of credit under CLA.
B. Interest Rate and Other Fees/ Charges
107. The interest rate and any other fees / charges on the underlying loans charged
to the borrower shall be based on the contractual agreement, subject to the regulatory
norms applicable to the REs. Specifically, the final interest rate charged to the
borrower shall be the blended interest rate which is calculated as an average rate of
interest derived from the interest rates charged by respective REs, as per their internal
lending policies and risk profile of the same or similar borrower, weighted by the
proportionate funding share of concerned REs under CLA.
108. Any change in rates by respective REs under CLA will be made as per their
credit policy and extant regulatory norms, and the same shall be reflected in the
updated blended rate and communicated to the borrower.
109. Any fees / charges payable by the borrower in addition to the blended interest
rate shall be incorporated in computation of annual percentage rate (APR) and
disclosed appropriately in the KFS as prescribed in the paragraph 105 of these
Directions.
110. As part of the credit policy, the bank shall lay down the objective criteria for fees/
charges payable for lending services, depending upon relevant factors such as the
nature of service provided, quantum of loan, etc. Such fees/ charges shall not involve,
directly or indirectly, any element of credit enhancement/ default loss guarantee unless
permitted otherwise.
Explanation
(1) Credit enhancement shall have the same meaning as defined in Part A of this
Direction.
(2) Default loss guarantee is a contractual arrangement, called by whatever name,
between the originating RE and partner RE, under which the former guarantees to
compensate the latter, for loss due to default up to a certain percentage of the loan
portfolio of the RE, specified upfront. Any other implicit guarantee of similar nature
linked to the performance of the loan portfolio of the RE and specified upfront, shall
also be covered under the definition of DLG
32

C. Operational Arrangements
111. The CLA shall entail an irrevocable commitment on the part of partner RE to
take into its books, on back to back basis, its share of the individual loans as originated
by the originating RE.
112. The CLA shall ensure that the respective shares of the REs are reflected in the
books of both REs without delay after disbursement by the originating RE to the
borrower, in any case not later than 15 calendar days from the date of disbursement.
113. Originating bank shall also ensure that it transfers the loan under CLA only to
the partner RE, as per the ex-ante agreement and as specified in the KFS at the time
of sanction of loan.
114. If the originating bank is unable to transfer the share of the exposure to the
partner RE under CLA within 15 calendar days for any reason, then the loan/s shall
remain on the books of the originating bank and can be transferred to other eligible
lenders only under the provisions of Part A of this Direction.
115. Each RE (including bank) shall maintain a borrower’s account individually for
its respective share.
116. All transactions (disbursements / repayments) between the REs, as well as with
the borrower, shall be routed through an escrow account maintained with a bank
(which could also be one of the REs involved in CLA). The agreement shall clearly
specify the manner of appropriation between the originating and partner REs.
117. The loans under the CLA shall be included in the scope of internal/ statutory
audit in each RE to ensure adherence to their respective internal guidelines, terms of
the agreement and applicable regulatory requirements.
118. Banks shall implement a business continuity plan to ensure uninterrupted
service to their borrowers till repayment of the loans, in the event of termination of CLA
between the REs.
119. A bank involved under CLA shall comply with the prescribed norms under the
Reserve Bank of India (Commercial Banks – Know Your Customer) Directions, 2025
as amended from time to time. Bank may rely upon the originating RE for “Customer
Identification Process” as per the provisions of the said Directions on KYC.
33

120. Banks shall be guided by the fair practice code and grievance redressal
mechanism as applicable to them.
D. Reporting to credit information companies (CICs)
121. Banks shall adhere to the extant requirements of reporting to CICs for their
share of the loan account, as per the provisions of the Credit Information Companies
(Regulation) Act, 2005 and the Rules and Regulations issued by RBI therein, from time
to time.
E. Default Loss Guarantee
122. Originating bank may provide default loss guarantee up to five per cent of loans
outstanding in respect of loans under CLA. Provision of such default loss guarantee
shall be governed mutatis mutandis in terms of Reserve Bank of India (Commercial
Banks – Credit Facilities) Directions, 2025 as amended from time to time.
F. Asset Classification Norms
123. Banks shall apply a borrower-level asset classification for their respective
exposures to a borrower under CLA, implying that if either of the REs classifies its
exposure to a borrower under CLA as SMA / NPA on account of default in the CLA
exposure, the same classification shall be applicable to the exposure of the other RE
to the borrower under CLA. Banks shall put in place a robust mechanism for sharing
relevant information in this regard on a near-real time basis, and in any case latest by
end of the next working day.
G. Transfer of Loan Exposures
124. Any subsequent transfer of loan exposures originated under CLA to third
parties, or any inter-se transfer of such loan exposures by banks, shall be strictly in
compliance with the provisions of Part A of this Direction. Such transfers to a third
party, however, can be done only with the mutual consent of both the originating and
partner REs.
H. Disclosures
125. In addition to the applicable disclosure requirements under extant regulations,
Banks shall also prominently disclose on their website, a list of all active CLA partners.
34

126. Banks shall also make appropriate disclosures in their financial statements,
under ‘Notes to Accounts’, relating to necessary details of CLAs on an aggregate
basis. The details may inter alia include quantum of CLAs, weighted average rate of
interest, fees charged / paid, broad sectors in which CLA was made, performance of
loans under CLA, details related to default loss guarantee, if any, etc. The disclosure
shall be done on quarterly/annual basis.
35

PART C - OTHER TYPES OF LENDING AND RISK TRANSFER
ARRANGEMENTS
Chapter I – Lending under Consortium / Multiple Banking Arrangements
127. The banks may evolve appropriate mechanism for adopting sole bank, multiple
bank, consortium or syndication approach, by framing necessary ground rules on
operational aspects.
128. Banks shall strengthen its information back-up about the borrowers enjoying
credit facilities from multiple lenders as under:
(1) At the time of granting fresh facilities, bank shall obtain declaration from the
borrowers about the credit facilities already enjoyed by them from other lenders in the
format specified in Annex I. In the case of existing banks, all the banks shall seek a
declaration from their existing borrowers availing sanctioned limits of rupees five crore
and above or wherever, it is in their knowledge that their borrowers are availing credit
facilities from other lenders and introduce a system of exchange of information with
other lenders as indicated above.
(2) Subsequently, banks shall exchange information about the conduct of the
borrowers' accounts with other lenders (participating REs under consortium/ Multiple
Banking Arrangements) in the format given in Annex II at least at quarterly intervals.
(3) The bank shall obtain regular certification by a professional, preferably a Company
Secretary / Cost Accountant / Chartered Accountant regarding compliance of various
statutory prescriptions that are in vogue as per the format specified in Annex III.
(4) Further, the bank shall make greater use of credit reports available from Credit
Information Companies listed under Reserve Bank of India (Credit Information
Companies) Directions, 2025.
(5) The bank shall also incorporate suitable clauses in the loan agreements in future
(at the time of next renewal in the case of existing facilities) regarding exchange of
credit information so as to address confidentiality issues.
129. Further, the consortium leader / bank having the largest exposure shall have
the lead role in monitoring the unhedged foreign exchange exposure of entities.
36

Chapter II – Inter-Bank Participations
130. There shall be two categories of Participations namely Inter-Bank Participations
with Risk Sharing and Inter-Bank Participations without Risk Sharing.
(i) Inter-Bank Participations with Risk Sharing
131. Selection of Accounts: A bank will allot such participations only in respect of
advances, which are not in default. The aggregate amount of such Participations in
any account should not exceed 40 per cent of the outstanding in the account at the
time of issue. Further, during the currency of the Participations the aggregate amount
of Participations should be covered by the outstanding balance in the account. In case
the outstanding balance falls short of the participations outstanding, the issuing bank
will reduce the Participations to the extent necessary and if need be, issue
Participations for smaller amounts.
132. Period of Participation: The minimum period of such a Participation shall be 91
days, while the maximum period shall be 180 days.
133. Rate of Interest: The rate of interest on Participations would be left free to be
determined between the issuing bank and the participating bank.
134. Transferability: Participations shall not be transferable.
135. Documentation: A bank should subscribe to the "uniform code for
Participations" prepared by IBA which will spell out clearly their inter-se rights and
obligations in relation to the securities covered by the advances in question.
136. Risk: The risk would be deemed to have crystallised when the issuing bank
recalls the advances and stops operations in the relative account. In such a case the
issuing bank would give due notice to the participating bank intimating the default.
137. Repayment: The issuing bank will normally repay the amount of Participations
together with interest to the participant bank on the date of maturity, excepting when
the risk has materialised. In cases where risk has materialised the issuing bank will
take necessary action, in consultation with the participating bank and share the
recoveries proportionately.
138. Accounting: In the case of the issuing bank, the aggregate amount of
Participations would be reduced from the aggregate advances outstanding. Such
transactions will not be reflected in the individual borrower's accounts but will be only
37

netted out in the financial reporting. The participating bank shall show the aggregate
amount of such Participations as part of its advances. The issuing bank will maintain
a record of full particulars of such Participations.
There shall be no privity of contract between the borrower and the participating bank
and to avoid any difficulty, bank will incorporate in the cash credit agreement of the
borrowers an appropriate clause permitting the lending bank to shift a part of the
advance to any bank, without notice to the borrowers, by way of Participations. The
agreement may also provide that in the event of issue of Participations the issuing
bank would continue to represent the participating bank in protecting the latter's
interests.
(ii) Inter-Bank Participations without risk sharing
139. Period of Participation: The tenure of such Participations shall not exceed 90
days.
140. Rate of Interest: The rate of interest would be determined by the two concerned
banks.
141. Transferability: Participation shall not be transferable.
142. Repayment: On the date of maturity, the issuing bank will pay the amount of
Participations with interest to the participating bank irrespective of the default if any in
the advance in question.
143. Accounting: The issuing bank will show the amount of Participations as
borrowing while the participating bank shall show the same under Advances to bank
i.e. due from banks. The Participations would be treated as part of the net Demand
and Time Liabilities and net bank balances for purposes of statutory reserve
requirements.
144. Reporting of Data: As a result of outstanding Participations being treated as
borrowings, the issuing bank should report such borrowings in the fortnightly return
under Section 42(2) of the Reserve Bank of India Act, 1934. The same shall be done
by including the amount of Participations, by the issuing bank under 'Borrowings from
banks' i.e. item l(b) in Form 'A'. The participating bank should include the amount of
Participations taken in advances to banks under item III(c) in Form 'A'. The amount of
Participations so included in the relative items of Form 'A' should be clearly indicated
38

as a foot-note to the return, showing separately also Participations on risk sharing
basis.
39

Chapter III – Transfer of Borrower Accounts at the Request/Instance of
Borrower
145. The banks shall put in place a Board approved policy with regard to take-over
of accounts from another bank at the request/instance of the borrower. The policy may
include norms relating to the nature of the accounts that may be taken over, authority
levels for sanction of takeover, reporting of takeovers to higher authorities, monitoring
mechanism of taken over accounts, credit audit of taken over accounts, examination
of staff accountability especially in case of quick mortality of such cases after takeover,
periodic review of taken over accounts at Board/ Board Committee level, Top
Management level, etc.
146. Before taking over an account, the transferee bank should obtain necessary
credit information from the transferor bank as per the format prescribed in Annex II.
This would enable the transferee bank to be fully aware of the irregularities, if any,
existing in the borrower's account(s) with the transferor bank. The transferor bank, on
receipt of a request from the transferee bank, should share necessary credit
information as per the prescribed format at the earliest.
40

PART D: REPEAL AND OTHER PROVISIONS
A. Repeal and saving
147. With the issue of these Directions, the existing Directions, instructions, and
guidelines relating to Transfer and Distribution of Credit Risk as applicable to
Commercial Banks stand repealed, as communicated vide circular
DOR.RRC.REC.302/33-01-010/2025-26 dated November 28, 2025. The Directions,
instructions and guidelines repealed prior to the issuance of these Directions shall
continue to remain repealed.
148. Notwithstanding such repeal, any action taken or purported to have been taken,
or initiated under the repealed Directions, instructions, or guidelines shall continue to
be governed by the provisions thereof. All approvals or acknowledgments granted
under these repealed lists shall be deemed as governed by these Directions. Further,
the repeal of these directions, instructions, or guidelines shall not in any way
prejudicially affect:
(1) any right, obligation or liability acquired, accrued, or incurred thereunder;
(2) any, penalty, forfeiture, or punishment incurred in respect of any
contravention committed thereunder;
(3) any investigation, legal proceeding, or remedy in respect of any such
right, privilege, obligation, liability, penalty, forfeiture, or punishment as
aforesaid; and any such investigation, legal proceedings or remedy may
be instituted, continued, or enforced and any such penalty, forfeiture or
punishment may be imposed as if those directions, instructions, or
guidelines had not been repealed.
B. Application of other laws not barred
149. The provisions of these Directions shall be in addition to, and not in derogation
of the provisions of any other laws, rules, regulations, or directions, for the time being
in force.
C. Interpretations
150. For the purpose of giving effect to the provisions of these Directions or in order
to remove any difficulties in the application or interpretation of the provisions of these
Directions, the RBI may, if it considers necessary, issue necessary clarifications in
41

respect of any matter covered herein and the interpretation of any provision of these
Directions given by the RBI shall be final and binding.
(Vaibhav Chaturvedi)
Chief General Manager
42

Annex I
Minimum Information to be Declared by Borrowing Entities to Banks while
Approaching for Finance under Multiple Banking Arrangement
A. Details of borrowing arrangements from other banks
(institution-wise and facility-wise)
I. Name and address of bank /
institution
II.
Facilities availed
A. Fund–based credit facilities
(Indicate the nature of facilities e.g.
working capital / demand loan / term loan
/ short term loan) / foreign currency loan,
corporate loan / line of credit / Channel
financing, bill discounting etc. amount
and the purpose)
B. Non-fund-based facilities other than
derivatives
(Indicate the nature of facilities e.g. L/C,
BG, DPG (I & F) etc. amount and the
purpose)
C. Derivatives contracts entered into
with the bank
(Indicate the nature of the contract,
maturity, amount and the purpose)
III.
Date of sanction
IV. Present outstanding
(In the case of derivatives contracts,
negative MTM i.e which is not due for
settlement may be indicated)
V. Overdues position, if any
(In the case of derivatives contracts, the
negative MTM i.e. amount payable to the
bank under the contract but not yet paid
may be indicated)
43

VI. Repayment terms
(for demand loans, term loans, corporate
loans, project - wise finance)
VII. Security offered
(complete details of security both primary
and collateral including specific cash
flows assigned to project wise finance /
loan raised & personal / corporate
guarantee, to be furnished)
VIII. Requests for facilities which are under
process
[The information to be given for domestic and overseas borrowings from commercial
banks, Financial Institutions and NBFCs]
B. Miscellaneous Details
(Rs. in crore)
I. CPs raised during the year and current outstanding
II. Details of financing outside banking system e.g. L/C
Bills discounting
III Amount of un-hedged foreign currency exposures
(please give currency-wise position in the format given
below)
(i) Short term exposures (less than one year)
(a) Long positions
(b) Short positions
(c ) Net Short term Exposure (a-b)
(ii) Long term exposures ( one year and beyond)
(a) Long positions
(b) Short positions
(c) Net Long term exposure a-b)
(iii) Overall Net Position (i-ii) for each currency
(iv) Overall Net Position across all currencies
44

III. Main and allied activities with locations
IV. Territory of sales and market share
V. Details of financial aspects incl. DSCR Projections
wherever applicable as per requirement of bank - Imp.
Financial covenants, if any, agreed to / accepted with
other lenders.
VI. CID A/Cs, within / outside financing Banks, being
operated, if any
VII. Demands by statutory authorities / current status
thereof
VIII. Pending litigations
IX. A declaration authorizing the bank to share information
with other financing banks
45

Annex II
Format for Credit Information Exchange
Part – I
Bio Data of the Company
I. Borrowing party's name and address
II. Constitution
III. Names of Directors / Partners
IV. Business activity
* Main
* Allied
V. Names of other financing Banks
VI. Net worth of Directors / Partners
VII. Group affiliation, if any
VIII. Date on associate concerns, if banking
with the same bank
IX. Changes in shareholding and
management from the previous report,
if any
Part - II
Major credit quality indicators
I. IRAC Classification
II. Internal Credit rating with narration
III. External Credit rating, if any
IV. Latest available Annual Report of the As on ---------------
borrower
46

Part – III
Exposure Details other than Derivatives
(Rs. in crore)
I. Type of credit facilities, e.g. working capital loan / demand loan / term loan /
short term loan / foreign currency loan, corporate loan
/ line of credit / Channel financing,
contingent facilities like LC, BG & DPG (I & F) etc. Also, state L/C bills
discounting / project wise finance availed).
II. Purpose of loan
III. Date of loan facilities (including temporary facilities)
IV. Amount sanctioned (facility wise)
V. Balance outstanding (facility wise)
VI. Repayment terms
VII. Security offered
* Primary
* Collateral
* Personal / Corporate Guarantees
* Extent of control over cash flow
VIII. Defaults in term commitments / lease rentals / others
IX. Any other special information like court cases, statutory dues, major defaults,
adverse internal / external audit observations
47

Part - IV
Exposure Details – Derivatives Transactions
(Rs. in crore)
Sr. Nature of the Notional Weighted Amount of Amount Notional Major
No. derivatives Amount average positive of Amount of reasons for
Transactions of maturity MTM contracts outstanding restructuring
contracts of for the classified contracts ( in brief)
contracts bank as NPA which have
(Not due been
for restructured
settlement)
A. Plain Vanilla
Contracts
1. Forex Forward
contracts
2. Interest rate
Swaps
3. Foreign
Currency
Options
4. Any other
contracts
(Please
specify)
B. Complex
derivatives
including
various types
of option
combinations
designed as
cost
reduction/zero
cost
structures
1. Contracts
involving only
interest rate
derivatives.
48

2. Other
contracts
including
those
involving
foreign
currency
derivatives
3. Any other
contracts
(Please
specify)
Part – V
Un-hedged foreign currency exposures of the borrower with currency-wise
details
(Rs. in crore)
I Short term exposures (less than one
year)
(a) Long positions
(b) Short positions
(c) Net short- term exposure (a-b)
II Long term exposures ( one year and
beyond)
(a) Long positions
(b) Short positions
(c) Net long-term exposure (a-b)
III Overall Net Position (I –II) for each
currency (Please give Overall Net Position
in this format for each
currency)
IV Overall Net Position across all currencies
49

Part – VI
Experience with the borrower
I. Conduct of funded facilities (based on
cash management / tendency to
overdraw)
II. Conduct of contingent facilities (based
on payment history)
III. C ompliance with financial covenants
IV. C ompany's internal systems &
procedures
V. Quality of management
VI. O verall Assessment
(The above to be rated as good, satisfactory or below par only)
(*) Broad guidelines for incorporating comments under this head is furnished in the next
page
Broad Guidelines for Incorporating Comments under Part - VI
(Experience) of the Credit Information Report
Good Satisfactory Below Par
I. Conduct of funded facilities
* Over-drawings (No. of times) Upto 4 times 5 to 6 times Above 6
times
* Average period of adjustment Within 1 Within 2 Beyond 2
month months months
* Extent of overdrawings (% of limit)
Upto 10% 10 to 20% Above 20%
II. Conduct of contingent facilities (Other than Derivatives)
* No. of Defaults Upto 2 times 3 to 4 times Above 4
times
* Average period of adjustment Within 1 Within 2 Beyond 2
week weeks weeks
III Conduct of Derivatives Transactions
* No. of contracts where the positive <25% of 25-50% of > 50% of
MTM value due to the bank remained total total number total number
overdue for more than 30 days number of of contracts of contracts
contracts
50

* No. of contracts where the positive <1% of total 1-5% of total > 5% of total
MTM value due to the bank remained number of number of number of
overdue for more than 90 days and the contracts contracts contracts
account had to be classified as NPA (
but later on regularized and is not NPA
as on the date of exchange of
information)
Note: All cases where any of the
contracts has been classified as NPA
and continues to be NPA as on the date
of the exchange of information should
be shown
as Below Par)
* No. of contracts restructured during <25% of 25-50% of > 50% of
the relevant period total number total number total number
of contracts of contracts of contracts
IV. Compliance with financial covenants
* Stock statement / Financial data Timely Delay upto Delay over
15 days 15 days
* Creation of charge Prompt Delay over 2
Delay upto 2
months
months
V. Company's internal systems and procedures
* Inventory Management Adequate Adequate Adequate
systems are systems are systems are
in place in place but not in place
not adhered
* Receivables Management - do - - do - - do -
* Resource Allocation - do - - do - - do -
* Control over Information - do - - do - - do -
VI. Quality of management
* Integrity Reliable Nothing Cannot be
adverse categorized
in previous
columns
51

* Have -do-
Professional
Expertise Competence / Commitments necessary
& visionary
experience
* Tract Record Timely Executions / -do-
52

Annex III
Part: I
DILIGENCE REPORT
To,
The Manager,
___________________ (Name of the Bank)
I/We have examined the registers, records, books and papers of
____________ Limited having its registered office
at……………………………………………………… as required to be
maintained under the Companies Act, 2013 (the Act) and the rules made
thereunder , the provisions contained in the Memorandum and Articles of
Association of the Company, the provisions of various statutes, wherever
applicable, as well as the provisions contained in the Listing Agreement/s, if
any, entered into by the Company with the recognized stock exchange/s for
the half year ended on…………… . In my/our opinion and to the best of
my/our information and according to the examination carried out by me/us
and explanations furnished to me/us by the Company, its officers and agents.
I/We report that in respect of the aforesaid period:
1. The management of the Company is carried out by the Board of
Directors comprising of as listed in Annex …., and the Board was duly
constituted. During the period under review the following changes that
took place in the Board of Directors of the Company are listed in the
Annex …., and such changes were carried out in due compliance with
the provisions of the Companies Act, 2013.
2. The shareholding pattern of the company as on ------- was as
detailed in Annex …………:
During the period under review the changes that took place in the
shareholding pattern of the Company are detailed in Annex…….:
3. The company has altered the following provisions of
(i) The Memorandum of Association during the period under
review and has complied with the provisions of the
Companies Act, 2013 for this purpose.
53

(ii) The Articles of Association during the period under
review and has complied with the provisions of the
Companies Act, 2013 for this purpose.
4. The company has entered into transactions with business
entities in which directors of the company were interested as detailed
in Annex….. .
5. The company has advanced loans, given guarantees and
provided securities amounting to Rs. ____________ to its directors
and/or persons or firms or companies in which directors were
interested, and has complied with Companies Act, 2013.
6. The Company has made loans and investments; or given
guarantees or provided securities to other business entities as detailed
in Annex ….and has complied with the provisions of the Companies
Act, 2013.
7. The amount borrowed by the Company from its directors,
members, financial institutions, banks and others were within the
borrowing limits of the Company. Such borrowings were made by the
Company in compliance with applicable laws. The break up of the
Company's domestic borrowings were as detailed in Annex ….. :
8. The Company has not defaulted in the repayment of public
deposits, unsecured loans, debentures, facilities granted by banks,
financial institutions and nonbanking financial companies.
9. The Company has created, modified or satisfied charges on the
assets of the company as detailed in Annex…. Investments in wholly
owned Subsidiaries and/or Joint Ventures abroad made by the
company are as detailed in Annex ……
10. Principal value of the forex exposure and Overseas Borrowings
of the company as on ………… are as detailed in the Annex under"
11. The Company has issued and allotted the securities to the
persons-entitled thereto and has also issued letters, coupons, warrants
and certificates thereof as applicable to the concerned persons and
also redeemed its preference shares/debentures and bought back its
54

shares within the stipulated time in compliance with the provisions of
the Companies Act,2013 and other relevant statutes.
12. The Company has insured all its secured assets.
13. The Company has complied with the terms and conditions, set
forth by the lending bank/financial institution at the time of availing any
facility and also during the currency of the facility.
14. The Company has declared and paid dividends to its
shareholders as per the provisions of the Companies Act, 2013.
15. The Company has insured fully all its assets.
16. The name of the Company and or any of its Directors does not
appear in the defaulters' list of Reserve Bank of India.
17. The name of the Company and or any of its Directors does not
appear in the Specific Approval List of Export Credit Guarantee
Corporation.
18. The Company has paid all its Statutory dues and satisfactory
arrangements had been made for arrears of any such dues.
19. The funds borrowed from banks/financial institutions have been
used by the company for the purpose for which they were borrowed.
20. The Company has complied with the provisions stipulated in
Section 372 A of the Companies Act in respect of its Inter Corporate
loans and investments.
21. It has been observed from the Reports of the Directors and the
Auditors that the Company has complied with the applicable Accounting
Standards issued by the Institute of Chartered Accountants in India.
22. The Company has credited and paid to the Investor Education
and Protection Fund within the stipulated time, all the unpaid dividends
and other amounts required to be so credited.
23. Prosecutions initiated against or show cause notices received by
the Company for alleged defaults/ offences under various statutory
provisions and also fines and penalties imposed on the Company and
or any other action initiated against the Company and/ or its directors in
such cases are detailed in Annex….. .
55

24. The Company has (being a listed entity) complied with the
provisions of the Listing Agreement.
25. The Company has deposited within the stipulated time both
Employees' and Employer's contribution to Provident Fund with the
prescribed authorities.
Note : The qualification, reservation or adverse remarks, if any, are explicitly
stated at the relevant paragraphs above place(s).
Place Signature
Date Name of the Company Secretary / Firm
C.P.No.:
Part II:
CERTIFICATIONS OF BORROWAL COMPANIES BY CHARTERED
ACCOUNTANTS / COMPANY SECRETARIES / COST ACCOUNTANTS
i. Terms of reference for stock audit are to be spelt out clearly by the
Banks, so that the Chartered Accountants can give focused attention to
such areas.
ii. End-use verification of funds lent, if certified by Statutory Auditors, will
be a good comfort to the Banks.
iii. As Banks quite often deal with unlisted companies, disclosure
requirements for such companies above a specific turnover shall be
made akin to those for listed companies, viz. consolidated balance
sheet, segmental reporting etc. Information on large shareholding also
will be useful.
iv. Further, the following additional certification either from Chartered
Accountant or Company Secretary or Cost Accountants shall also be
thought of :-
(a) Company Directors not figuring in defaulters list
(RBI/ECGC)/willful
defaulters list etc.)
(b) Details of litigation above a specified cut off limit.
56

(c) A specific certificate, probably from the Company Secretary,
regarding compliance with Sec. 372 (a) of the Companies Act.
(d) Details of creation/ modification/satisfaction of charges on the
assets of the company, position regarding insurance, show
cause notices received, finds and penalties awarded.
v. As regards rotation of Auditors, for the sake of operational convenience,
it is suggested they shall be changed once every 5 years instead of
every 3 years.
vi. In order to avoid concentration, group companies shall have different
Statutory/ Internal Auditors in case group turnover exceeds Rs.100
crores.
57