भारतीय �रज़वर् बैंक
RESERVE BANK OF INDIA
RBI/DOR/2025-26/167
DOR.ACC.REC.No.86/21.04.018/2025-26 November 28, 2025
Reserve Bank of India (Commercial Banks - Financial Statements:
Presentation and Disclosures) Directions, 2025 (Updated as on July 01, 2026)
Table of Contents
Chapter-I Preliminary .................................................................................................. 3
A. Short title and commencement ............................................................................... 3
B. Applicability ............................................................................................................. 3
Chapter-II Balance Sheet and Profit and Loss Account ............................................... 4
A. Format of the balance sheet and profit and loss account .................................... 4
B. Notes and instructions for compilation ................................................................. 4
C. Guidance on specific issues with respect to certain Accounting Standards .... 29
Chapter-III Disclosure in Financial Statements – Notes to Accounts ......................... 41
A. General ................................................................................................................... 41
B. Presentation ........................................................................................................... 41
C. Disclosure requirements ....................................................................................... 41
Chapter-IV Consolidated Financial Statements ......................................................... 87
Chapter-V Other Instructions .................................................................................... 89
A. Inter-branch account - provisioning for net debit balance ................................. 89
B. Reconciliation of Nostro account and treatment of outstanding entries ........... 89
C. Transfer to / appropriation from Reserve funds .................................................. 90
D. Provisioning for fraud ........................................................................................... 91
E. Unreconciled balances .......................................................................................... 92
F. Deferred tax liability (DTL) on Special Reserve created under Section 36(1) (viii)
of the Income Tax Act, 1961 ......................................................................................... 92
G. Window dressing ................................................................................................... 92
Chapter-VI Repeal and Other Provisions ................................................................... 93

A. Repeal and saving ................................................................................................. 93
B. Application of other laws not barred .................................................................... 93
C. Interpretations ....................................................................................................... 93
Annex I ..................................................................................................................... 95
Annex II .................................................................................................................. 113
2

In exercise of the powers conferred by section 35A of the Banking Regulation
Act, 1949, and all other provisions / laws enabling the Reserve Bank of India (‘RBI’) in
this regard, RBI being satisfied that it is necessary and expedient in the public interest
so to do, hereby, issues the Directions hereinafter specified.
Chapter-I Preliminary
A. Short title and commencement
1. These Directions shall be called the Reserve Bank of India (Commercial Banks
– Financial Statements : Presentation and Disclosures) Directions, 2025.
2. These Directions shall come into force with immediate effect.
B. Applicability
3. These Directions shall be applicable to Commercial Banks (hereinafter
collectively referred to as 'banks' and individually as a 'bank').
For the purpose of these Directions, ‘Commercial Banks’ mean banking
companies (other than Regional Rural Banks, Small Finance Banks, Payment
Banks, and Local Area Banks), corresponding new banks, and the State Bank of
India, as defined respectively under clauses (c), (da), and (nc) of Section 5 of the
Banking Regulation Act, 1949.
3

Chapter-II Balance Sheet and Profit and Loss Account
A. Format of the balance sheet and profit and loss account
4. In terms of the provisions of Section 29 of the Banking Regulation Act, 1949, a
bank shall in respect of all business transacted by it prepare a Balance Sheet
and profit and loss account as on the last working day of the year or the period,
as the case may be, in the Forms set out in the Third Schedule of the Banking
Regulation Act, 1949. In exercise of the powers conferred by Section 29(4) of the
Banking Regulation Act, 1949, the Government of India has specified the Forms
in the Third Schedule, vide notification S.O.240(E) dated March 26, 1992,
published in the Gazette of India. These are reproduced in Annex I to these
Directions.
B. Notes and instructions for compilation
5. A bank shall follow the general instructions for the compilation of balance sheet
and profit and loss account as specified in subparagraph (1) below. A bank shall
ensure strict compliance with the Accounting Standards notified under the
Companies (Accounting Standards) Rules, 2021, as amended from time to time,
subject to Directions / Guidelines issued by the RBI.
(1) Instructions for compilation of balance sheet
Item Sc Coverage Notes and instructions for compilation
h
Capital 1 Nationalised Banks The capital owned by Central Government
as on the date of the balance-sheet
Capital (Fully owned
including contribution from Government, if
by Central
any, for participating in World Bank projects
Government)
shall be shown.
Banks incorporated The amount brought in by a bank by way of
outside India : Capital start-up capital as prescribed by RBI should
be shown under this head.
The amount of deposit kept with RBI, under
sub-section 2 of Section 11 of the Banking
4

Regulation Act, 1949 (‘BR Act’) should also
be shown.
The amount held under Section 11(2)(b)(i)
of the BR Act and earmarked as Credit Risk
Mitigation (CRM) shall be disclosed by way
of a note in Schedule 1 : Capital to the
Balance Sheet as given below:
1[‘An amount of ₹… (Previous year: ₹….)
out of the amount held as deposit under
Section 11(2) of the BR Act has been
earmarked as credit risk mitigation (CRM)
for offsetting of exposures to Head Office
(including overseas branches of the Head
Office) and is not reckoned for regulatory
capital and other statutory requirements, if
any.’]
Other Banks (Indian) Authorised, Issued, Subscribed, Called-up
capital shall be given separately. Calls in
Authorised Capital
arrears will be deducted from Called-up
(__ shares of ₹ ___
capital while the paid-up value of forfeited
each)
shares shall be added thus arriving at the
Issued Capital
Paid-up capital. Where necessary, items
(__ shares of ₹ ___
which can be combined shall be shown
each)
under one head, for instance ‘Issued and
Subscribed Capital Subscribed Capital’.
(__ shares of ₹ ___
Notes:
each)
1. The changes in the above items, if any,
Called up Capital
during the year, say, fresh contribution
(__ shares of ₹ ___
made by Government, fresh issue of
each)
1
Amended with effect from April 1, 2026 vide the Reserve Bank of India (Commercial Banks - Financial
Statements: Presentation and Disclosures) Amendment Directions, 2026 dated January 1, 2026.
5

Less: Calls unpaid capital, capitalisation of reserves, etc., shall
be explained in the notes.
Add: Forfeited
shares 2. Perpetual Non-Cumulative Preference
Shares (PNCPS) included as part of Tier 1
Paid up Capital
regulatory capital shall be included here.
Reserves 2 (I) Statutory Reserves Reserves created out of the profits in
and Surplus compliance with Sections 17(1), 11(2)(b)(ii)
(read with paragraph 21 of this Master
Direction) or any other section of the BR Act
shall be separately disclosed.
(II) Capital Reserves The expression ‘Capital Reserves’ shall not
include any amount regarded as free for
distribution through the Profit and Loss
Account. Surplus on revaluation shall be
treated as Capital Reserves. Surplus on
translation of the financial statements of
overseas branches (which includes fixed
assets also) is not a revaluation reserve.
(III) Share Premium Premium on issue of share capital shall be
shown separately under this head.
(IV) Revenue and Other 4The expression ‘Revenue Reserve’ shall
Reserves mean any reserve other than Capital
Reserve. This item will include all reserves,
other than those separately classified. The
expression ‘reserve’ shall not include any
amount retained by way of providing for
depreciation, renewals, or diminution in
value of assets or retained by way of
providing for any known liability.
4
Substituted with effect from May 18, 2026, vide Reserve Bank of India (Commercial Banks – Financial
Statements: Presentation and Disclosures) Sixth Amendment Directions, 2026 dated May 18, 2026.
6

(V) Balance in Profit and Includes balance of profit after
Loss Account appropriations. In case of loss the balance
shall be shown as a deduction.
Note:
Movements in various categories of
reserves shall be shown as indicated in the
schedule.
Deposits 3 A. Demand Deposits
(I)
(i) From banks Includes all bank deposits repayable on
demand.
(ii) From others Includes all demand deposits of the non-
bank sectors.
Credit balances in overdrafts, cash credit
accounts, deposits payable at call, overdue
deposits, inoperative current accounts,
matured time deposits, cash certificates,
and certificates of deposits, etc., shall be
included under this category.
(II) Savings Bank Includes all savings bank deposits
Deposits (including inoperative savings bank
accounts)
(III) Term Deposits
(i) From banks Includes all types of bank deposits
repayable after a specified term.
(ii) From others Includes all types of deposits of the non-
bank sector repayable after a specified
term.
Fixed deposits, cumulative and recurring
deposits, cash certificates, certificates of
7

deposits, annuity deposits, deposits
mobilised under various schemes, ordinary
staff deposits, foreign currency non-
resident deposits accounts, etc., shall be
included under this category.
B. Deposits of branches The total of these two items should match
(i) in India the total deposits shown in the Balance
Sheet.
(ii) Deposits of branches
Note:
outside India
1. Interest payable on deposits which is
accrued but not due shall not be included
but shown under other liabilities.
2. Matured term deposits shall be treated
as demand deposits.
3. Deposits under special schemes shall be
included under term deposits if they are not
payable on demand. When such deposits
have matured for payment, they shall be
shown under demand deposits.
4. Deposits from a bank will include
deposits from the banking system in India,
co-operative banks, foreign banks which
may or may not have a presence in India.
5. A bank shall disclose by way of a
footnote to this schedule, the amount of
deposits against which lien is marked out of
the total deposits (For current and previous
year).
(I) Borrowings in India
(i) RBI Includes repo, other borrowings or
Borrowings 4 refinance obtained from RBI.
8

(ii) Other banks Includes repo, other borrowings or
refinance obtained from banks (including
Co-operative banks) and balances in Repo
Account.
(iii) Other institutions and Includes borrowing / refinance obtained
agencies from Export-Import Bank of India,
NABARD, and other institutions, agencies
(including liability against participation
certificates-without risk sharing, if any) and
balances in Repo Account.
(II) Borrowings outside Includes borrowings of Indian branches
India from outside India as well as borrowings of
foreign branches.
Secured borrowings This item shall be shown separately.
included in above Includes secured borrowings / refinance in
India and outside India.
Note:
1. The total of I and II should match the total
borrowings shown in the balance sheet.
2. Inter-office transactions shall not be
shown as borrowings.
3. Funds raised by foreign branches by way
of certificates of deposits, notes, and
bonds, etc., shall be classified depending
upon documentation, as ‘deposits’,
‘borrowings’, etc.
4. Refinance obtained by a bank from RBI
and various institutions shall be shown
under the head ‘Borrowings’. Accordingly,
advances shall be shown at the gross
amount on the asset side.
9

5. The following shall be included here:
a) Perpetual Debt Instruments
b) Tier 2 Capital Instruments
c) Perpetual Cumulative Preference
Shares (PCPS)
d) Redeemable Non-Cumulative
Preference Shares (RNCPS)
e) Redeemable Cumulative Preference
Shares (RCPS)
f) Subordinated Debt.
Other 5 (I) Bills Payable Includes drafts, telegraphic transfers,
Liabilities traveller’s cheques, mail transfers payable,
and pay slips, bankers cheques, and other
Provisions miscellaneous items.
(II) Inter-office The inter-office adjustments balance, if in
adjustments (net) credit, shall be shown under this head. The
bank should first segregate the credit
entries outstanding for more than 5 years in
the inter-branch account and transfer them
to a separate Blocked Account which
should be shown under ‘Other Liabilities
and Provisions - Others’. While arriving at
the net amount of inter-branch transactions
for inclusion here, or Schedule 11, as the
case may be, the aggregate amount of
Blocked Account should be excluded and
only the amount representing the remaining
credit entries should be netted against debit
entries. Only net position of inter-office
accounts, inland as well as foreign, shall be
shown here.
10

(III) Interest accrued Includes interest accrued but not due on
deposits and borrowings.
(IV) Others (including Includes net provision for income tax, other
provisions) taxes like interest tax (less advance
payment, tax deducted at source, etc.),
deferred tax (if after netting as per AS 22 is
a liability), floating provisions, and
contingency funds which are not disclosed
as reserves but are actually in the nature of
reserves, other liabilities which are not
disclosed under any of the major heads
such as unclaimed dividend, provisions and
funds kept for specific purposes, unexpired
discount, outstanding charges like rent,
conveyance, etc. Aggregate Net Credit in
the Clearing Differences transferred to a
separate Blocked Account shall be shown
here. Outstanding credit entries in nostro
accounts transferred to Blocked Account
shall also be shown here.
Note:
1. For arriving at the net balance of inter-
office adjustments all connected inter-office
accounts shall be aggregated and the net
balance only will be shown, representing
mostly items in transit and unadjusted
items.
2. The interest accruing on all deposits,
whether the payment is due or not, shall be
treated as a liability.
3. It is proposed to show only deposits
under the head ‘deposits’ and hence all
surplus provisions for bad and doubtful
debts, contingency funds, etc., which are
11

not netted off against the relative assets,
shall be brought under the head ‘Others
(including provisions)’.
4. Provisions towards Standard Assets
shall not be netted from gross advances
and shown separately as ‘Provisions
against Standard Assets’ under ‘Others’ in
Schedule 5 of the Balance Sheet.
5. Where any item under the ‘Others
(including provisions)’ exceeds one per
cent of the total assets, particulars of all
such items shall be disclosed in the notes
to accounts.
ASSETS
Cash and 6 (I) Cash in hand Includes cash in hand including foreign
balances (including foreign currency notes, and also of foreign
with the RBI currency notes) branches in the case of a bank having
such branches.
(II) Balances with RBI All type of reverse repos with RBI including
those under Liquidity Adjustment Facility
(i) in Current Account
shall be presented under sub-item (ii) ‘in
(ii) in Other Accounts
Other Accounts’.
Balances 7 (I) In India Includes all balances with banks in India
with banks (including Co-operative banks), except
(i) Balances with banks
and money Money at Call and Short Notice as
(a) in Current Accounts
at call and explained below.
short notice (b) in Other Deposit
Balances in current account and other
Accounts
deposit accounts shall be shown
separately.
(ii) Money at Call and Includes the following if they are for original
Short notice tenors up to and inclusive of 14 days:
12

(a) with banks (i) Money lent in the call / notice money
market
(b) with other institutions
(ii)Reverse Repo with banks and other
institutions
The balances in Reverse Repo A/C shall be
classified under Schedule 7 under item I (ii)
(a) or I (ii) (b) as appropriate.
(II) Outside India Includes balances:
(i) in Current Accounts (i) held by foreign branches of the bank;
and
(ii) in Other Deposit
Accounts (ii) held outside India by the Indian
branches of the bank.
Money at Call and
(iii)
Short Notice Balances held by Indian branches of the
bank with its foreign branches shall not be
shown under this head. Instead, such
balances shall be included in inter-branch
accounts.
The amounts held in ‘current accounts’
and ‘deposit accounts’ shall be shown
separately.
‘Money at Call and Short Notice’ outside
India includes deposits usually classified
as per that foreign jurisdiction’s laws,
regulations, or market practices as money
at call and short notice where such money
is lent.
Investments 8 (I) Investments in India
in
(i) Government Includes Central and State Government
securities Securities and Government Treasury Bills.
13

(ii) Other Approved Securities other than Government
Securities Securities, which have been specified by
the Reserve Bank as ‘approved securities’
under Section 5(a) of the BR Act shall be
included here.
(iii) Shares Investments in shares of companies and
corporations not included in item (ii) shall
be included here.
(iv) Debentures and Investments in debentures (as defined by
Bonds the Companies Act, 2013) and bonds of
companies and corporations not included in
item (ii) shall be included here.
(v) Subsidiaries and / or Investments in subsidiaries and joint
Joint Ventures ventures (including associates) shall be
included here.
(vi) Others Residual investments, if any, like mutual
funds, gold, etc.
(II) Investments outside
India
(i) Government All foreign Government Securities including
Securities (including securities issued by local authorities shall
local authorities) be classified under this head.
(ii) Subsidiaries and / or All investments made in the share capital of
Joint ventures subsidiaries floated outside India and / or
abroad joint ventures abroad shall be classified
under this head.
(iii) Others investments All other investments outside India shall be
shown under this head.
Advances 9 A.(i) Bills purchased and In classification under section A, all
discounted outstanding advances in India as well as
14

outside India net of provisions made, will be
classified under three heads as indicated
and shall include both secured and
unsecured advances as well as overdue
instalments.Receivables acquired under
factoring shall be reported under ‘Bills
purchased and Discounted’.
All loans repayable on demand and short-
term loans with original maturity up to one
Cash credits,
year shall be classified under ‘Cash credits,
overdrafts and loans
(ii)
overdrafts and loans repayable on
repayable on
demand’. Outstanding balances on credit
demand
cards shall be included under this category.
Other balances pertaining to credit
operations, even if they are dues from other
banks / organisations shall be shown as
part of advances. However, where such
dues are in the nature of fee or other
revenue receivable the same may be
shown as Other Assets.
A ‘Term Loan’ is a loan which has a
specified maturity and is payable in
instalments or in bullet form. All Term
Loans with maturity in excess of one year
Term loans
(iii)
shall be classified under this category (i.e.,
A(iii)) whereas as explained above short
term loans with original maturity up to one
year shall be categorised as loans
repayable on demand.
B.(i) Secured by tangible All advances or part of advances including
assets advances against book debts which are
secured by tangible assets shall be shown
here. The item will include secured
advances both in and outside India.
15

The bank shall specify that advances
secured by tangible assets includes
advances against book debts.
(ii) Covered by Bank / Advances in India and outside India to the
Government extent they are covered by guarantees of
Guarantee Indian / foreign governments, Indian /
foreign banks, Deposit Insurance and
Credit Guarantee Corporation (DICGC),
and Export Credit Guarantee Corporation
of India (ECGC) shall be included here.
Further, advances to the extent they are
covered by Credit Guarantee Fund Trust for
Micro and Small Enterprises (CGTMSE),
Credit Risk Guarantee Fund Trust for Low
Income Housing (CRGFTLIH), and
individual schemes under National Credit
Guarantee Trustee Company Ltd.
(NCGTC) which are backed by explicit
Central Government Guarantee*, shall also
be included here.
*Note: In terms of Reserve Bank of India
(Commercial Banks - Prudential Norms on
Capital Adequacy) Directions, 2025, as
amended from time to time
(iii) Unsecured All advances not classified under (i) and (ii)
shall be included here. Rights, licenses,
authorisations, etc., charged to a bank as
collateral should not be reckoned as
tangible security and therefore such
advances shall be reckoned as unsecured
under this head, with a disclosure of the
same in the notes to the account.
Total of ‘A’ should tally with total of ‘B’.
16

C. Advances in India Advances shall be broadly classified into
(I) ‘Advances in India’ and ‘Advances outside
India’. Advances in India will be further
(i) Priority Sectors
classified on the sectoral basis as
(ii) Public Sector
indicated. Advances, which qualify as
(iii) Banks priority sector lending according to extant
RBI instructions are to be classified under
(iv) Others
the head ‘Priority Sectors’. Such advances
shall be excluded from item (ii) i.e.,
(II) Advances outside advances to public sector. Advances to
India Central / State Governments and other
Government undertakings including
(i) Due from banks
Government Companies and statutory
(ii) Due from others
corporations shall be included in the
(iii) Bills purchased and
category ‘Public Sector’.
discounted
All advances to the banking sector
(iv) Syndicated loans
including Co-operative Banks shall come
(v) Others under the head ‘Banks’. All the remaining
advances will be included under the head
‘Others’ and typically this category will
include non-priority sector advances to the
private, joint and co-operative sectors.
Note:
1. Advances shall be reported net of
provisions made thereon (other than
provisions towards Standard Assets). To
the extent that Floating provisions have not
been treated as Tier 2 capital, they shall
also be netted off from advances.
2. Term loans reported shall not include
loans repayable on demand.
3. Consortium advances shall be reported
net of share of other participating banks /
institutions.
17

4. All interest-bearing loans and advances
granted to bank’s own staff shall be
included here.
5. Advances to other banks / organisations
shall be included here.
6. Interest accrued but not due should not
be reflected here. Instead, it shall be shown
under ‘Interest accrued’ in other assets.
7. Rights, licenses, and authorisations, etc.,
charged to the bank as security / collateral
in respect of projects (including
infrastructure projects) financed by them,
shall not be reckoned as tangible security.
Such advances shall be reckoned as
unsecured.
8. Partial credit enhancement facilities to
the extent drawn shall be treated as an
advance.
9. The aggregate amount of inter - bank
participations with risk sharing would be
reduced from the aggregate advances
outstanding by issuing bank. Participating
bank shall show the amount of inter-bank
participations under advances. Where the
participation is without risk sharing, it shall
be reflected by the participating bank as
due from Banks under Schedule 9.
10. Reverse Repo with banks and other
institutions having original tenors more than
14 days shall be shown under this
Schedule under following head:
i. A.(ii) ‘Cash credits, overdrafts and
loans repayable on demand’’
18

ii. B.(i) ‘Secured by tangible assets’
iii. C.(I).(iii) Banks (iv) ‘Others’ (as the
case may be)
Fixed 10 (I) Premises Premises, including land, wholly or partly
Assets owned by the bank for the purpose of
(i) At cost as on March
business including residential premises
31 of the preceding
shall be shown against ‘Premises’.
year
(ii)
In the case of premises and other fixed
Additions during the
assets, the previous balance, additions
year
(iii)
thereto, and deductions therefrom during
Deductions during
the year as also the total depreciation
the year
(iv) written off shall be shown.
Depreciation to date
Other Fixed Assets
(II) Furniture and fixtures, vehicles, and all
(including furniture
and fixtures) other fixed assets shall be shown under this
head.
At cost as on March
(i)
31 of the preceding
year
(ii) Additions during the
year
Deductions during
(iii) the year
Depreciation to date
(iv)
Other 11 (I) Inter-office The inter-office adjustments balance, if in
Assets adjustments (net) debit, shall be shown under this head. Only
net position of inter-office accounts, inland
as well as foreign, shall be shown here. For
arriving at the net balance of inter-office
adjustment accounts, all connected inter-
office accounts shall be aggregated and the
net balance, if in debit only shall be shown
19

representing mostly items in transit and
unadjusted items.
(II) Interest accrued Interest accrued but not due on
investments and advances and interest due
but not collected on investments will be the
main components of this item. As banks
normally debit the borrowers’ account with
interest due on the balance sheet date,
usually there may not be any amount of
interest due on advances. Only such
interest as can be realised in the ordinary
course shall be shown under this head.
(III) Tax paid in advance / The amount of advance tax paid, tax
tax deducted at deducted at source (TDS), etc., to the
source extent that these items are not set-off
against relative tax provisions shall be
shown against this item.
(IV) Stationery and Only exceptional items of expenditure on
stamps stationery like bulk purchase of security
paper, loose leaf or other ledgers, etc.,
which are shown as quasi-asset to be
written off over a period of time shall be
shown here. The value shall be on a
realistic basis and cost escalation shall not
be taken into account, as these items are
for internal use.
(V) Non-banking assets Immovable properties / tangible assets
acquired in acquired in satisfaction of claims are to be
satisfaction of claims shown under this head.
(VI) Others This will include items like claims which
have not been met, for instance, clearing
items, debit items representing addition to
assets or reduction in liabilities which have
20

not been adjusted for technical reasons,
want of particulars, etc. Accrued income
other than interest shall also be included
here.
All non-interest-bearing loans and
advances granted to the bank’s staff shall
be reported here. Cash Margin Deposit with
The Clearing Corporation India Limited
(CCIL) shall be shown here.
Deposits placed with NABARD / SIDBI /
NHB, etc., on account of shortfall in priority
sector targets shall be included here. Banks
shall also disclose the details of such
deposits, both for the current year and
previous year, as a footnote in Schedule 11
of the Balance Sheet.
Where any item under ‘Others’ exceeds
one percent of the total assets, particulars
of all such items shall be disclosed in the
notes to accounts.
Contingent 12 (I) Claims against the
Liabilities bank not
acknowledged as
debts
(II) Liability for partly paid Liability on partly paid shares, debentures,
investments etc., shall be included in this head.
(III) Liability on account of Outstanding forward exchange contracts
outstanding forward shall be included here.
exchange contracts
(IV) Guarantees given on Guarantees given for constituents in India
behalf of constituents and outside India shall be shown
separately.
In India
(i)
21

(ii) Outside India
(V) Acceptances, This item will include letters of credit and
endorsements and bills accepted by the bank on behalf of its
other obligations customers.
(VI) Other items for which Arrears of cumulative dividends, bills
the bank is rediscounted, commitments of underwriting
contingently liable contracts, and estimated amount of
contracts remaining to be executed on
capital account and not provided for etc.,
are to be included here.
All unclaimed liabilities (where amount due
has been transferred to the Depositors
Education and Awareness Fund
established under the Depositor Education
and Awareness Fund Scheme 2014) shall
be shown here.
The undrawn partial credit enhancement
facilities shall be shown here.
When Issued (‘WI’) securities should be
recorded in books as an off-balance sheet
item till issue of the security. The off-
balance sheet net position in the ‘WI’
market should be marked to market scrip-
wise on daily basis at the day’s closing
price of the ‘WI’ security. In case the price
of the ‘WI’ security is not available, the
value of the underlying security determined
as per extant regulations may be used
instead. Depreciation, if any, should be
provided for and appreciation, if any, should
be ignored. On delivery, the underlying
security may be classified in any of the
three categories, viz., ‘Held to Maturity
(HTM)’, ‘Available for Sale (AFS)’ or ‘Fair
22

Value through Profit and Loss (FVTPL),
depending upon the intent of holding, at the
contracted price.
Bills for -- -- Bills and other items in the course of
collection collection and not adjusted will be shown
against this item in the summary version
only. No separate schedule is proposed.
(2) Instructions for compilation of profit and loss account
Item Sch Coverage Notes and Instructions for compilation
Interest 13 (I) Interest / Includes interest and discount on all types of
earned discount on loans and advances like cash credit, demand
advances / bills loans, overdrafts, export loans, term loans,
domestic and foreign bills purchased and
discounted (including those rediscounted),
overdue interest and interest subsidy, if any,
relating to such advances / bills.
(II) Income on Includes all income derived from the investment
investments portfolio by way of interest / discount, dividend.
Any discount or premium on the securities under
HTM, debt securities under AFS and FVTPL
(where contractual cash flow meets criterion for
solely payment of principal and interest), shall be
amortised over the remaining life of the
instrument. The amortised amount shall be
reflected in the financial statements under item II
‘Income on Investments’ of Schedule 13 :
‘Interest Earned’ with a contra in Schedule 8 :
’Investments’.
(III) Interest on Includes interest on balances with RBI, other
balances with banks, call loans, and money market placements,
RBI and other etc.
23

Inter-bank
funds
(IV) Others Includes any other interest / discount income not
included in the above heads.
Notes:
The balances in Reverse Repo Interest Income
Account shall be classified under Schedule 13
(under item III or IV as appropriate).
Other 14 (I) Commission, Includes all remuneration on services such as
Income Exchange and commission on collections, commission /
Brokerage exchange on remittances and transfers,
commission on letters of credit, and bank
guarantees, letting out of lockers, commission on
Government business, commission on other
permitted agency business including consultancy
and other services, brokerage, etc., on securities.
It does not include foreign exchange income.
(II) Profit on sale Includes profit / loss on sale of securities,
of investments furniture, land and building, motor vehicles, gold,
Less: Loss on and silver, etc. Only the net position shall be
sale of shown. If the net position is a loss, the amount
investments shall be shown as a deduction.
(III) Profit on The net profit / loss on revaluation of assets shall
revaluation of also be shown under this item. Provision for non-
investments performing investments (NPI) shall not be shown
Less: Loss on here and instead reflected under Provisions and
revaluation of Contingencies.
investments
Profit on sale
(IV)
of land,
buildings and
other assets
Less: Loss on
24

sale of land,
buildings and
other assets
(V) Profit on Includes profit / loss on dealing in foreign
exchange exchange, all income earned by way of foreign
transactions exchange, commission, and charges on foreign
exchange transactions excluding interest which
Less: Loss on
will be shown under interest head. Only the net
exchange
position shall be shown. If the net position is a
transactions
loss, it is to be shown as a deduction.
(VI) Income earned
by way of
dividend etc.
from
subsidiaries,
companies,
joint ventures
abroad / in
India
(VII) Miscellaneous Includes recoveries from constituents for godown
income rents, income from bank’s properties, security
charges, insurance etc., and any other
miscellaneous income. In case any item under
this head exceeds one per cent of the total
income, particulars shall be given in the notes.
The fee received from the sale of Priority Sector
Lending Certificates (PSLCs) shall be shown
here.
Interest 15 (I) Interest on Includes interest paid on all types of deposits
expende deposits including deposits from banks and other
d institutions.
25

(II) Interest on RBI Includes discount / interest on all borrowings and
/ inter-bank refinance from RBI and other banks.
borrowings
(III) Others Includes discount / interest on all borrowings /
refinance from financial institutions. All other
payments like interest on participation
certificates, penal interest paid, etc., shall also be
included here.
Notes:
1. The balances in Repo Interest Expenditure
Account shall be classified under Schedule 15
(under item II or III as appropriate).
2. While acquiring government and other
approved securities, banks should not capitalise
the broken period interest paid to seller as part of
cost of the investment, but instead book it as an
expense.
Operatin 16 (I) Payments to Includes staff salaries / wages, allowances,
g and provisions bonus, other staff benefits like provident fund,
Expense for employees pension, gratuity, liveries to staff, leave fare
s concessions, staff welfare, and medical
allowance to staff, etc.
(II) Rent, taxes Includes rent paid by the banks on buildings,
and lighting municipal and other taxes paid (excluding income
tax and interest tax), electricity, other similar
charges and levies. House rent allowance and
other similar payments to staff shall appear under
the head ‘Payments to and provisions for
employees’.
(III) Printing and Includes books and forms and stationery items
stationery used by the bank and other printing charges
26

which are not incurred by way of publicity
expenditure.
(IV) Advertisement Includes expenditure incurred by the bank for
and publicity advertisement and publicity purposes including
printing charges of publicity material.
(V) Depreciation Includes depreciation on bank’s own property,
on bank’s cars and other vehicles, furniture, electric fittings,
property vaults, lifts, leasehold properties, non-banking
assets, etc.
(VI) Directors’ fees, Includes sitting fees, allowances and all other
allowances expenses incurred on behalf of directors. The
and expenses daily allowance, hotel charges, and conveyance
charges, etc., which though in the nature of
reimbursement of expenses incurred shall be
included under this head. Similar expenses of
Local Board members, committees of the Board,
etc. shall also be included under this head.
(VII) Auditors’ fees Includes the fees paid to the statutory auditors
and expenses and branch auditors for professional services
(including rendered and all expenses for performing their
branch duties, even though they may be in the nature of
auditors’ fees) reimbursement of expenses. If external auditors
have been appointed by banks themselves for
internal inspections and audits and other
services, the expenses incurred in that context
including fees should not be included under this
head but shall be shown under ‘other
expenditure’.
(VIII) Law charges All legal expenses and reimbursement of
expenses incurred in connection with legal
services shall be included here.
27

(IX) Postage, Includes all postal charges like stamps,
Telegrams, telephones, etc.
Telephones,
etc.
(X) Repairs and Includes repairs to bank’s property, their
maintenance maintenance charges, etc.
(XI) Insurance Includes insurance charges on bank’s property,
insurance premia paid to DICGC, etc., to the
extent they are not recovered from the concerned
parties.
(XII) Other All expenses other than those not included in any
expenditure of the other heads like licence fees, donations,
subscriptions to papers, periodicals,
entertainment expenses, and travel expenses,
etc., shall be included under this head. In case
any particular item under this head exceeds one
percent of the total income, particulars shall be
given in the notes. The fees paid for the purchase
of the PSLCs shall be shown here.
Provision Includes all provisions made for bad and doubtful
s and debts, provisions for taxation, provisions for NPI,
Continge transfers to contingencies, and other similar
ncies items.
28

C. Guidance on specific issues with respect to certain Accounting
Standards
6. A bank shall also adhere to the following with respect to relevant issues in the
application of certain Accounting Standards for the bank:
(1) Accounting Standard 5 - Net Profit or Loss for the Period, Prior Period
Items and Changes in Accounting Policies
(i) The objective of this Standard is to prescribe the classification and
disclosure of certain items in the statement of profit and loss so that all
enterprises prepare and present such a statement on a uniform basis.
(ii) Accordingly, this Standard requires the classification and disclosure of
extraordinary and prior period items, and the disclosure of certain items
within profit or loss from ordinary activities. It also specifies the accounting
treatment for changes in accounting estimates and the disclosures to be
made in the financial statements regarding changes in accounting policies.
(iii) Paragraph 4.3 of Preface to the Statements on Accounting Standards
issued by the ICAI states that Accounting Standards are intended to apply
only to items which are material. Since materiality is not objectively defined,
it has been decided that all banks should ensure compliance with the
provisions of the Accounting Standard in respect of any item of prior period
income or prior period expenditure which exceeds one per cent of the total
income / total expenditure of the bank if the income / expenditure is
reckoned on a gross basis, or one per cent of the net profit before taxes or
net losses as the case may be if the income is reckoned net of costs.
(iv) Since the format of the profit and loss accounts of banks prescribed in Form
B under Third Schedule to the BR Act does not specifically provide for
disclosure of the impact of prior period items on the current year’s profit and
loss, such disclosures, wherever warranted, may be made in the ‘Notes to
Accounts’ to the balance sheet of a bank.
(2) Accounting Standard 9 – Revenue Recognition
(i) Non-recognition of income by a bank in case of non-performing advances
and non-performing investments, in compliance with the regulatory
prescriptions of the RBI, shall not attract a qualification by the statutory

auditors as this would be in conformity with provisions of the standard, as it
recognises postponement of recognition of revenue where collectability of
the revenue is significantly uncertain.
(3) Accounting Standard 11 - The Effects of Changes in Foreign Exchange
Rates
AS 11 is applied in the context of the accounting for transactions in foreign
currencies and in translating the financial statements of foreign operations. The
issues that arise in this context have been identified and a bank shall be guided
by the following while complying with the provisions of the Standard:
(i) Classification of Integral and Non-integral Foreign Operations
(a) Paragraph 17 of AS 11 states that the method used to translate the
financial statements of a foreign operation depends on the way in which it
is financed and operates in relation to the reporting enterprise. For this
purpose, foreign operations are classified as either ‘integral foreign
operations’ or ‘non-integral foreign operations’. The issue that arises here
pertains to the classification of representative offices set up in foreign
countries, foreign branches, and off-shore banking units set up in India as
‘integral foreign operation’ or ‘non-integral foreign operation’.
(b) Taking into consideration the operation of the foreign branches of Indian
banks and the indicators listed in paragraph 20 of the Standard, it is
clarified that foreign branches of Indian banks, IFSC Banking Units (IBUs)
and Offshore Banking Units (OBUs) set up in India by banks shall be
classified as ‘non-integral foreign operations’. Taking into consideration
the operation of the representative offices of banks set up abroad and the
explanation in paragraph 18 of the Standard, representative offices shall
be classified as ‘integral foreign operations’. These classifications are for
the limited purpose of compliance with the Standard.
(ii) Exchange rate for recording foreign currency transactions and
translation of financial statements of non-integral foreign operation.
(a) As per paragraphs 9 and 21 of the Standard, a foreign currency
transaction shall be recorded by Indian branches and integral foreign
operations, on initial recognition in the reporting currency, by applying to
30

the foreign currency amount the exchange rate between the reporting
currency and the foreign currency at the date of the transaction. Further,
paragraph 24(b) of the Standard states that income and expense items of
non-integral foreign operations shall be translated at exchange rates at
the dates of the transactions. Indian branches and integral foreign
operations of a bank may face difficulty in applying the exchange rate
prevailing at the date of the transaction in respect of the items which are
not being recorded in Indian Rupees or are currently being recorded using
a notional exchange rate, due to their extensive branch network and
volume of transactions. The bank may also face difficulty in translating
income and expense items of a non-integral foreign operation by applying
the exchange rates at the dates of the transactions.
(b) A bank, which is in a position to apply the exchange rate prevailing on the
date of the transaction for recording the foreign currency transactions at
its Indian branches and integral foreign operations and for translating the
income and expense items of non-integral foreign operations as required
under AS 11 shall comply with the requirements. A bank, which has an
extensive branch network, have a high volume of foreign currency
transactions and is not fully equipped on the technology front shall be
guided by the following:
(i) Paragraph 10 of the Standard allows, for practical reasons, the use
of a rate that approximates the actual rate at the date of the
transaction. The Standard also states that if exchange rates fluctuate
significantly, the use of average rate for a period is unreliable. Since
the enterprises are required to record the transactions at the date of
the occurrence thereof, the weekly average closing rate of the
preceding week can be used for recording the transactions occurring
in the relevant week, if the same approximates the actual rate at the
date of the transaction. In view of the practical difficulties which a
bank may have in applying the exchange rates at the dates of the
transactions and since the Standard allows the use of a rate that
31

approximates the actual rate at the date of the transaction, the bank
may use average rates as detailed below:
(ii) FEDAI publishes a weekly average closing rate at the end of each
week and a quarterly average closing rate at the end of each quarter
for various currencies.
(iii) In respect of Indian branches and integral foreign operations, those
foreign currency transactions, which are currently not being recorded
in Indian Rupees at the date of the transaction or are being recorded
using a notional exchange rate shall now be recorded at the date of
the transaction by using the weekly average closing rate of the
preceding week, published by FEDAI, if the same approximates the
actual rate at the date of the transaction.
(iv) Generally, an Indian bank prepares the consolidated accounts for its
domestic and foreign branches at quarterly or longer intervals.
Hence, the bank may use the quarterly average closing rate,
published by FEDAI at the end of each quarter, for translating the
income and expense items of non-integral foreign operations during
the quarter.
(v) If the weekly average closing rate of the preceding week does not
approximate the actual rate at the date of the transaction, the closing
rate at the date of the transaction shall be used. For this purpose,
the weekly average closing rate of the preceding week would not be
considered approximating the actual rate at the date of the
transaction if the difference between (A) the weekly average closing
rate of the preceding week, and (B) the exchange rate prevailing at
the date of the transaction, is more than three and a half per cent of
(B). In respect of non-integral foreign operations, if there are
significant exchange fluctuations during the quarter, the income and
expense items of non-integral foreign operations shall be translated
by using the exchange rate at the date of the transaction instead of
the quarterly average closing rate. For this purpose, the exchange
rate fluctuation would be considered as significant, if the difference
32

between the two rates is more than seven per cent of the exchange
rate prevailing at the date of the transaction.
(vi) A bank is encouraged to equip itself to record the foreign currency
transactions of Indian branches as well as integral foreign operations
and translate the income as well as expense items of non-integral
foreign operations at the exchange rate prevailing on the date of the
transaction.
(iii) Closing rate
(a) Paragraph 7 of the Standard defines ‘Closing rate’ as the exchange rate
at the balance sheet date.
(b) In order to ensure uniformity among banks, closing rate to be applied for
the purposes of AS 11 (revised 2003) for the relevant accounting period
would be the last closing spot rate of exchange announced by FEDAI for
that accounting period.
(iv) Foreign Currency Translation Reserve (FCTR)
(a) In the context of recognition of gains in profit and loss account from FCTR
on repatriation of accumulated profits / retained earnings from overseas
branch(es), it is clarified that the repatriation of accumulated profits shall
not be considered as disposal or partial disposal of interest in non-integral
foreign operations as per AS 11.
(b) Accordingly, a bank shall not recognise in the profit and loss account the
proportionate exchange gains or losses held in the foreign currency
translation reserve on repatriation of profits from overseas operations.
(v) Accounting Standard 17 – Segment Reporting
The indicative formats for disclosure under ‘AS 17 – Segment Reporting’
are as below:
33

Format
Part A: Business segments
(Amount in ₹ crore)
Business Treasury Corporate / Retail Banking Other Banking Total
Segments Wholesale Banking Business

Particulars Current Previous Current Previous Current Previous Current Previous Current Previo
 Year Year Year Year Year Year Year Year Year us
Year
Revenue
Result
Unallocated
expenses
Operating
profit
Income
taxes
Extraordinar
y profit / loss
Net profit
Other
information:
Segment
assets
Unallocated
assets
Total assets
Segment
liabilities
Unallocated
liabilities
Total
liabilities
Note: No disclosure need be made in the shaded portion
Part B: Geographic segments
(Amount in ₹ crore)
Domestic International Total
Current Previous Current Previous Current Previous
Year Year Year Year Year Year
Revenue
Assets
Note:
a) The business segment shall ordinarily be considered as the primary reporting format
and geographical segment would be the secondary reporting format.
b) The business segments will be ‘Treasury’, ‘Corporate / Wholesale Banking’, ‘Retail
Banking’ and ‘Other banking operations’.
c) ‘Domestic’ and ‘International’ segments will be the geographic segments for disclosure.
34

d) A bank shall adopt its own methods, on a reasonable and consistent basis, for
allocation of expenditure among the segments.
e) ‘Treasury’ shall include the entire investment portfolio.
f) Retail Banking shall include exposures which fulfil the four criteria of orientation,
product, granularity, and low value of individual exposures for retail exposures laid down
in Reserve Bank of India (Commercial Banks – Prudential Norms on Capital Adequacy)
Directions, 2025. Individual housing loans will also form part of Retail Banking segment
for the purpose of reporting under AS-17.
g) Corporate / Wholesale Banking includes all advances to trusts, partnership firms,
companies, and statutory bodies, which are not included under ‘Retail Banking’.
h) Other Banking Business includes all other banking operations not covered under
‘Treasury, 'Wholesale Banking' and 'Retail Banking' segments. It shall also include all
other residual operations such as para banking transactions / activities.
i) Besides the above-mentioned segments, a bank shall report additional segments
within ‘Other Banking Business’ which meet the quantitative criterion prescribed in the
AS 17 for identifying reportable segments.
j) A bank shall sub-divide retail banking into (i) Digital Banking and (ii) Other Retail
Banking segments. The business involving digital banking products acquired by Digital
Banking Units (DBUs) or existing digital banking products would qualify to be clubbed
under ‘Digital Banking’ Segment.
(vi) Accounting Standard 18 – Related Party Disclosures
The manner of disclosures required by paragraphs 23 to 26 of AS 18 is
illustrated as below. It may be noted that the format given below is merely
illustrative in nature and is not exhaustive.
(Amount in ₹ crore)
Parent Relatives of
Associates/ Key
Items/Related (as per Subsidiaries Key
Joint Management Total
Party ownership Management
ventures Personnel@
or control) Personnel
Borrowings#
Deposits#
Placement of
deposits#
Advances#
Investments#
Non-funded
commitments#
35

Parent Relatives of
Associates/ Key
Items/Related (as per Subsidiaries Key
Joint Management Total
Party ownership Management
ventures Personnel@
or control) Personnel
Leasing / HP
arrangements
availed#
Leasing / HP
arrangements
provided#
Purchase of fixed
assets
Sale of fixed
assets
Interest paid
Interest received
Rendering of
services*
Receiving of
services*
Management
contracts*
@Whole time directors of the Board and CEOs of the branches of foreign banks in India.
#The outstanding at the year end and the maximum during the year are to be disclosed
*Contract services etc. and not services like remittance facilities, locker facilities, etc.
Notes:
a) Related parties for a bank are its parent, subsidiary(ies), associates / joint ventures,
Key Management Personnel (KMP) and relatives of KMP. KMP are the whole-time
directors for an Indian bank and the Chief Executive Officer (CEO) for a foreign bank
having branches in India. Relatives of KMP would be on the lines indicated in Section
45S of the RBI Act, 1934
b) The name and nature of related party relationship shall be disclosed, irrespective of
whether there have been transactions, where control exists within the meaning of the
Standard. Control would normally exist in case of parent-subsidiary relationship. The
disclosures may be limited to aggregate for each of the above related party categories
and would pertain to the year-end position as also the maximum position during the
year.
c) The Accounting Standard is applicable to all nationalised banks. The accounting
standard exempts state-controlled enterprises, i.e., a nationalised bank from making
any disclosures pertaining to its transactions with other related parties which are also
state controlled enterprises. Thus, a nationalised bank need not disclose its
transactions with the subsidiaries as well as the RRBs sponsored by it. However, it will
be required to disclose its transactions with other related parties.
36

d) Secrecy provisions: If in any of the above category of related parties there is only one
related party entity, any disclosure would tantamount to infringement of customer
confidentiality. In terms of AS 18, the disclosure requirements do not apply in
circumstances when providing such disclosures would conflict with the reporting
enterprise’s duty of confidentiality as specifically required in terms of statute, by
regulator or similar competent authority. Further, in case a statute or regulator
governing an enterprise prohibits the enterprise from disclosing certain information,
which is required to be disclosed, non-disclosure of such information would not be
deemed as non-compliance with the Accounting Standards. On account of the judicially
recognised common law duty of the bank to maintain the confidentiality of the customer
details, it need not make such disclosures. In view of the above, where the disclosures
under the Accounting Standards are not aggregated disclosures in respect of any
category of related party, i.e., where there is only one entity in any category of related
party, a bank need not disclose any details pertaining to that related party other than
the relationship with that related party.
(vii) Accounting Standard 23 – Accounting for Investments in Associates
in CFS
(a) This Accounting Standard sets out principles and procedures for
recognising, in the Consolidated Financial Statements (CFS), the effects
of the investments in associates on the financial position and operating
results of a group.
(b) The Standard requires that an investment in an associate shall be
accounted for in CFS under the equity method subject to certain
exceptions.
(c) The term ‘associate’ is defined as an enterprise in which the investor has
significant influence and which is neither a subsidiary nor a joint venture
of the investor.
(d) ‘Significant influence’ is the power to participate in the financial and / or
operating policy decisions of the investee but not control over those
policies. Such an influence may be gained by share ownership, statute, or
agreement.
(e) As regards share ownership, if an investor holds, directly or indirectly
through subsidiaries 20 per cent or more of the voting power of the
investee, it is presumed that the investor has significant influence, unless
it can be clearly demonstrated that this is not the case. Conversely, if the
37

investor holds, directly or indirectly through subsidiaries less than 20 per
cent of the voting power of the investee, it is presumed that the investor
does not have significant influence, unless such influence can be clearly
demonstrated. A substantial or majority ownership by another investor
does not necessarily preclude an investor from having significant
influence.
(f) The issue is whether conversion of debt into equity in an enterprise by a
bank by virtue of which the bank holds more than 20 per cent will result in
an investor-associate relationship for the purpose of AS 23. From the
above it is clear that though a bank may acquire more than 20 per cent of
voting power in the borrower entity in satisfaction of its advances, it may
be able to demonstrate that it does not have the power to exercise
significant influence since the rights exercised by it are protective in nature
and not participative. In such a circumstance, such investment may not
be treated as investment in associate under this Accounting Standard.
Hence, the test shall not be merely the proportion of investment but the
intention to acquire the power to exercise significant influence.
(viii) Accounting Standard 24 - Discontinuing operations
(a) This Standard establishes principles for reporting information about
discontinuing operations.
(b) Merger / closure of branches of a bank by transferring the assets /
liabilities to the other branches of the same bank may not be deemed as
a discontinuing operation and hence, this Accounting Standard will not be
applicable to merger / closure of branches of a bank by transferring the
assets / liabilities to the other branches of the same bank.
(c) Disclosures shall be required under the Standard only when: (a)
discontinuing of the operation has resulted in shedding of liability and
realisation of the assets by the bank or decision to discontinue an
38

operation which will have the above effect has been finalised by the bank
and (b) the discontinued operation is substantial in its entirety.
(ix) Accounting Standard 25 – Interim Financial Reporting
(a) This Standard prescribes the minimum content of an interim financial
report and the principles for recognition and measurement in a complete
or condensed financial statements for an interim period.
(b) The disclosures required to be made by a listed bank in terms of the listing
agreements would not tantamount to interim reporting as envisaged under
AS 25, and as such AS 25 is not mandatory for the quarterly reporting
prescribed for listed banks.
(c) The recognition and measurement principles laid down under AS 25
shall, however, be complied with in respect of such quarterly reports.
(x) Accounting Standard 26 – Intangible asset
(a) This Standard prescribes the accounting treatment for intangible assets
that are not dealt with specifically in another accounting standard.
(b) With respect to computer software which has been customised for the
bank’s use and is expected to be in use for some time, the detailed
recognition and amortisation principle in respect of computer software
prescribed in the Standard adequately addresses these issues and may
be followed by banks.
(c) It may be noted that intangible assets recognised and carried in the
balance sheet of a bank in compliance with AS 26 shall attract provisions
of Section 15(1) of the BR Act, in terms of which a bank is prohibited from
declaring any dividend until any expenditure not represented by tangible
assets is carried in the balance sheet.
(d) A bank desirous of paying dividend while carrying any intangible assets
in its books must seek exemption from Section 15(1) of the BR Act from
the Central Government.
(xi) Accounting Standard 27 - Financial Reporting of Interests in Joint
Ventures
(a) This Standard is applied in accounting for interests in joint ventures and
the reporting of joint venture assets, liabilities, income, and expenses in
39

the financial statements of ventures and investors, regardless of the
structures or forms under which the joint venture activities take place.
(b) This Standard identifies three broad types of joint ventures, namely,
jointly controlled operations, jointly controlled assets, and jointly controlled
entities.
(c) In case of jointly controlled entities, where a bank is required to present
CFS, the investment in joint ventures shall be accounted for as per
provisions of this Standard. In respect of joint ventures in the form of jointly
controlled operations and jointly controlled assets, this Accounting
Standard is applicable for both solo financial statements as well as CFS.
(d) It is clarified that though paragraph 26 of the Accounting Standard
prescribes that for the purpose of solo financial statements, investment in
jointly controlled entities is to be accounted as per AS 13, such investment
is to be reflected in the solo financial statements of the bank as per
guidelines prescribed by RBI since AS 13 does not apply to banks.
(e) RRBs sponsored by a bank shall be treated as associates and AS 27
shall not apply for investment in RRBs. The investment in RRBs shall
however, be accounted in the CFS as per the provisions of AS 23.
(xii) Accounting Standard 28 – Impairment of assets
(a) This Standard prescribes the procedures that an enterprise applies to
ensure that its assets are carried at no more than their recoverable
amount.
(b) It is clarified that the Standard shall not apply to inventories, investments,
and other financial assets such as loans and advances and shall generally
be applicable to a bank in so far as it relates to fixed assets.
(c) The Standard shall generally apply to financial lease assets, and non-
banking assets acquired in settlement of claims only when the indications
of impairment of the entity are evident.
40

Chapter-III Disclosure in Financial Statements – Notes to Accounts
7. A bank shall disclose information as specified in this chapter in the ‘Notes to
Accounts’ of the financial statements.
Explanation 1: These disclosures are intended only to supplement and not to
replace disclosure requirements under other laws, regulations, or accounting and
financial reporting standards.
Explanation 2: A bank is encouraged to make disclosures that are more
comprehensive than the minimum required under these Directions, especially if
such disclosures significantly aid in the understanding of the financial position
and performance.
A. General
8. The items listed in these Directions shall be disclosed in the ‘Notes to Accounts’
to the financial statements. A bank shall make additional disclosures where
material.
B. Presentation
9. In addition to the schedules to the balance sheet, a summary of ‘significant
accounting policies’ and ‘Notes to Accounts’ shall be disclosed as separate
Schedules.
C. Disclosure requirements
10. A bank shall, at the minimum, furnish the following information in the ‘Notes to
Accounts’. The bank shall note that mere mention of an activity, transaction or
item in the disclosure template does not imply that it is permitted, and the bank
shall refer to the extant statutory and regulatory requirements while determining
the permissibility or otherwise of an activity or transaction. The bank shall
disclose comparative information in respect of the previous period for all amounts
reported in the current period’s financial statements. Further, the bank shall
include comparative information for narrative and descriptive information if it is
relevant to understanding the current period’s financial statements.
41

(1) Regulatory capital
(i) Composition of regulatory capital
(Amount in ₹ crore)
Sr. Previous
Particulars Current Year
No. Year
Common Equity Tier 1 capital (CET 1) (net of deductions, if
i)
any)
ii) Additional Tier 1 capital
iii) Tier 1 capital (i + ii)
iv) Tier 2 capital
v) Total capital (Tier 1 + Tier 2)
vi) Total Risk Weighted Assets (RWAs)
vii) CET 1 Ratio (CET 1 as a percentage of RWAs)
viii) Tier 1 Ratio (Tier 1 capital as a percentage of RWAs)
ix) Tier 2 Ratio (Tier 2 capital as a percentage of RWAs)
Capital to Risk Weighted Assets Ratio (CRAR) (Total
x)
Capital as a percentage of RWAs)
xi) Leverage Ratio
xii) Percentage of the shareholding of Government of India
xiii) Amount of paid-up equity capital raised during the year
Amount of non-equity Tier 1 capital raised during the year,
of which:
Give list* as per instrument type (perpetual non-cumulative
xiv)
preference shares, perpetual debt instruments, etc.). The
bank shall also specify if the instruments are Basel III
compliant.
Amount of Tier 2 capital raised during the year, of which:
Give list as per instrument type (perpetual cumulative
xv)
preference shares, debt capital instruments, etc.). The bank
shall also specify if the instruments are Basel III compliant.
* Example: A bank may disclose as under
Current year Previous year
Amount of non-equity Tier 1 capital raised during the year of which: ### ###
a) Basel III compliant Perpetual Non-Cumulative Preference Shares ### ###
b) Basel III compliant Perpetual Debt Instruments ### ###
(ii) Draw down from Reserves: Suitable disclosures mentioning the amount and
the rationale for withdrawal shall be made regarding any draw down from
reserves.
42

(2) Asset liability management
(i) Maturity pattern of certain items of assets and liabilities
(Amount in ₹ crore)
43
1 yaD ot 2 syad 7 ot 8 syad 41 ot 51 syad 03 ot syad 13 shtnom 2
shtnom
2 revO
shtnom
3 ot dna
shtnom
3 revO 6 ot pu dna shtnoM
shtnom
6 revO
raey
1 ot pu dna
dna
raey 1 revO
sraey
3 ot pu
dna
sraey 3 revO
sraey
5 ot pu 5 revO sraey latoT
Deposits
Advances
Investments
Borrowings
Foreign
Currency
assets
Foreign
Currency
liabilities
(ii) Liquidity coverage ratio (LCR): A bank shall disclose information on its LCR
covering all the four quarters of relevant financial year (whether audited or
otherwise) in the template given below.
(Amount in ₹ crore)
Quarter ended
(Similarly, there will be column of each of the four
quarters)
Total Un-weighted* Value Total Weighted@
(average) Value (average)
1 Total High-Quality Liquid Assets (HQLA)
Cash Outflows
Retail deposits and deposits from small business
2
customers, of which:
i) Stable deposits
ii) Less stable deposits
3 Unsecured wholesale funding, of which:
i) Operational deposits (all counterparties)
Non-operational deposits (all
ii)
counterparties)
iii) Unsecured debt
4 Secured wholesale funding
5 Additional requirements, of which
Outflows related to derivative exposures
i)
and other collateral requirements

Quarter ended
(Similarly, there will be column of each of the four
quarters)
Total Un-weighted* Value Total Weighted@
(average) Value (average)
Outflows related to loss of funding on debt
ii)
products
iii) Credit and liquidity facilities
6 Other contractual funding obligations
7 Other contingent funding obligations
8 Total Cash Outflows
Cash Inflows
9 Secured lending (e.g., reverse repos)
10 Inflows from fully performing exposures
11 Other cash inflows
12 Total Cash Inflows
Total Adjusted$ Value
13 Total HQLA
14 Total Net Cash Outflows
15 Liquidity Coverage Ratio (%)
*Un-weighted values shall be calculated as outstanding balances maturing or callable within 30 days (for inflows and
outflows) except where otherwise mentioned in the circular and LCR template.
@Weighted values shall be calculated after the application of respective haircuts (for HQLA) or inflow and outflow rates (for
inflows and outflows).
$Adjusted values shall be calculated after the application of both (a) haircuts and inflow and outflow rates and (b) any
applicable caps (i.e., cap on Level 2B and Level 2 assets for HQLA and cap on inflows).
(a) Data shall be presented as simple averages of daily observations over
the previous quarter (i.e., the average is calculated over a period of 90
days).
(b) For most data items, both un-weighted and weighted values of the LCR
components shall be disclosed as given in the disclosure template. The
un-weighted value of inflows and outflows shall be calculated as the
outstanding balances of various categories or types of liabilities, off
balance sheet items or contractual receivables. The weighted value of
HQLA shall be calculated as the value after haircuts are applied. The
weighted value for inflows and outflows shall be calculated as the value
after the inflow and outflow rates are applied. Total HQLA and total net
cash outflows shall be disclosed as the adjusted value, where the adjusted
value of HQLA is the value of total HQLA after the application of both
haircuts and any applicable caps on Level 2B and Level 2 assets as
44

indicated in this framework. The adjusted value of net cash outflows is to
be calculated after the cap on inflows is applied, if applicable.
(c) In addition to the above disclosure, a bank shall provide sufficient
qualitative discussion around the LCR to facilitate understanding of the
results and data provided. For example, where significant to the LCR, a
bank could discuss:
 the main drivers of its LCR results and the evolution of the
contribution of inputs to the LCR’s calculation over time;
 intra period changes as well as changes over time;
 the composition of HQLA;
 concentration of funding sources;
 derivative exposures and potential collateral calls;
 currency mismatch in the LCR;
 a description of the degree of centralisation of liquidity
management and interaction between the group’s units; and
 other inflows and outflows in the LCR calculation that are not
captured in the LCR common template but which the institution
considers to be relevant for its liquidity profile.
(iii) Net Stable Funding ratio (NSFR)
(a) A bank shall publish disclosure in a common template along with the
publication of its financial statements / results (i.e., typically quarterly or
half yearly), irrespective of whether the financial statements / results are
audited. The NSFR information shall be calculated on a consolidated
basis and presented in Indian rupee.
(b) A bank shall either include these NSFR disclosures in its published
financial reports or, at a minimum, provide a direct and prominent link to
the complete disclosure on its websites, or in publicly available regulatory
reports.
(c) Data shall be presented as quarter-end observations. For a bank
reporting on an annual basis, the NSFR shall be reported for the
45

preceding four quarters. Both unweighted and weighted values of the
NSFR components shall be disclosed unless otherwise indicated.
Weighted values are calculated as the values after Available Stable
Funding (ASF) or Required Stable Funding (RSF) factors are applied. The
bank shall also make available on their websites, or through publicly
available regulatory reports, an archive of all templates relating to prior
reporting periods. Irrespective of the location of the disclosure, the
minimum disclosure requirements must be in the format prescribed in this
Chapter.
(d) The data shall be presented as quarter-end observations. For banks
reporting on a semi-annual basis, the NSFR must be reported for each of
the two preceding quarters. For banks reporting on an annual basis, the
NSFR must be reported for the preceding four quarters. Both unweighted
and weighted values of the NSFR components must be disclosed unless
otherwise indicated. Weighted values are calculated as the values after
ASF or RSF factors are applied.
(e) A bank shall, in addition to the template prescribed below, provide a
sufficient qualitative discussion around the NSFR to facilitate an
understanding of the results and the accompanying data.
Explanation: For example, where significant to the NSFR, a bank could
discuss the drivers of its NSFR results and the reasons for intra-period
changes as well as the changes over time (e.g., changes in strategies,
funding structure, circumstances etc.).
NSFR Disclosure Template
Unweighted value by residual maturity
(₹ in Crore) Weighted value
6
< 6
No maturity* months to ≥ 1yr
months
< 1yr
ASF Item
1 Capital: (2+3)
2 Regulatory capital
3 Other capital instruments
46

NSFR Disclosure Template
Unweighted value by residual maturity
(₹ in Crore) Weighted value
6
< 6
No maturity* months to ≥ 1yr
months
< 1yr
Retail deposits and deposits from small
4
business customers: (5+6)
5 Stable deposits
6 Less stable deposits
7 Wholesale funding: (8+9)
8 Operational deposits
9 Other wholesale funding
10 Other liabilities: (11+12)
11 NSFR derivative liabilities
All other liabilities and equity not
12
included in the above categories
13 Total ASF (1+4+7+10)
RSF Item
Total NSFR high-quality liquid assets
14
(HQLA)
Deposits held at other financial
15
institutions for operational purposes
Performing loans and securities:
16
(17+18+19+21+23)
Performing loans to financial institutions
17
secured by Level 1 HQLA
Performing loans to financial
institutions secured by non-Level 1
18
HQLA and unsecured performing
loans to financial institutions
Performing loans to non-financial
corporate clients, loans to retail and
small business customers, and loans to
19
sovereigns, central banks, and PSEs,
of which:
With a risk weight of less than or equal
to 35% under the Basel II Standardised
20 Approach for credit risk
Performing residential mortgages, of
21
which:
With a risk weight of less than or equal
to 35% under the Basel II Standardised
22
Approach for credit risk
47

NSFR Disclosure Template
Unweighted value by residual maturity
(₹ in Crore) Weighted value
6
< 6
No maturity* months to ≥ 1yr
months
< 1yr
Securities that are not in default and do
23 not qualify as HQLA, including
exchange-traded equities
Other assets: (sum of rows 25 to
24
29)
Physical traded commodities, including
25
gold
Assets posted as initial margin for
derivative contracts and contributions to
26
default funds of CCPs
27 NSFR derivative assets
NSFR derivative liabilities before
28
deduction of variation margin posted
All other assets not included in the
29
above categories
30 Off-balance sheet items
31 Total RSF (14+15+16+24+30)
32 Net Stable Funding Ratio (%)
*Items to be reported in the ‘no maturity’ time bucket do not have a stated maturity. These may include, but
are not limited to, items such as capital with perpetual maturity, non-maturity deposits, short positions, open
maturity positions, non-HQLA equities, and physical traded commodities.
Note: A bank shall be guided by the Reserve Bank of India (Commercial Banks – Asset Liability
Management) Directions, 2025, as amended from time to time, for associated guidelines on asset
liability management including LCR and NSFR.
48

(3) Investments
(i) Composition of investment portfolio
(all amounts in ₹ crore)
Current Year Previous Year
Subsidiaries,
HTM FVTPL Subsidiaries, HTM AFS FVTPL
Associates & JVs
AFS Associates & JVs
At Fair non- Fair non- Fair
HFT At cost Fair Value At cost HFT At cost
cost Value HFT Value HFT Value
I. Investments in India
(i) Government securities
(ii) Other approved securities
(iii) Shares
(iv) Debentures and Bonds
(v) Subsidiaries, associates and joint
ventures
(vi)Others
Total
Less: Provisions for impairment / NPI
Net
II. Investments outside India
(i) Government securities (including
local authorities)
(i) Subsidiaries, associates and joint
ventures
(iii) Other investments
Total
Less: Provisions for impairment / NPI
Net
Total investments (I+II)
49

(ii) Fair value hierarchy of investment portfolio measured at fair value on
balance sheet
(In ₹ Crore)
Current Year Previous Year
AFS FVTPL AFS FVTPL
Level Level Level Total Level Level Level Total Level Level Level Total Level Level Level Total
1 2 3 1 2 3 1 2 3 1 2 3
I. Investments in India
(i) Government securities
(ii) Other approved securities
(iii) Shares
(iv) Debentures and Bonds
(v) Subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures
(vi)Others
Total
II. Investments outside India
(i) Government securities (including local authorities)
(i) Subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures
(iii) Other investments
Total
Total investments (I+II)
50

(iii) Net gains / (losses) on Level 3 financial instruments recognised in
AFS-Reserve and Profit and Loss Account
Current Year Previous Year
Recognised in AFS-Reserve
Recognised in Profit and Loss
Account
Note: This disclosure excludes Level 3 assets where the valuation of the asset is the price declared
by FBIL / FIMMDA for that asset.
(iv) Details of sales made out of HTM: Details of sales made out of HTM shall
be disclosed in the notes to accounts of the financial statements as per the
format given below.
(all amounts in ₹ crore)
Current Year Previous Year
A Opening carrying value of securities in HTM
Carrying value of all HTM securities sold
B
during the year
Less: Carrying values of securities sold
C under situations exempted from regulatory
limit*
D Carrying value of securities sold (D=B-C)
Securities sold as a percentage of opening
E
carrying value of securities in HTM (E=D÷A)
Amount transferred to Capital Reserve in
respect of HTM securities which were sold at
F
a gain
*In any financial year, the carrying value of investments sold out of HTM shall not exceed five
percent of the opening carrying value of the HTM portfolio. The five percent threshold referred to
above shall exclude sale of securities in the situations given under the Reserve Bank of India
(Commercial Banks - Classification, Valuation and Operation of Investment Portfolio) Directions,
2025.
(v) Reclassification between categories of investments
In terms of Reserve Bank of India (Commercial Banks – Classification, Valuation
and Operation of Investment Portfolio) Directions, 2025, when a bank reclassifies
investments from one category to another category, it shall disclose the details of

such reclassification including the reclassification adjustments in the notes to the
financial statements.
(vi) 5Movement of provisions for non-performing investments (NPIs)
(Amount in ₹ crore)
Particulars Current Year Previous Year
i) Movement of provisions held towards NPIs
a) Opening balance
b) Add: Provisions made during the year
c) Less: Write off / write back of excess provisions during
the year
d) Closing balance
(vii) Non-SLR investment portfolio
(a) Non-performing non-SLR investments
(Amount in ₹ crore)
Sr. No. Particulars Current Year Previous Year
a) Opening balance
b) Additions during the year since 1st April
c) Reductions during the above period
d) Closing balance
e) Total provisions held
(b) Issuer composition of non-SLR investments
(Amount in ₹ crore)
Extent of ‘Below
Extent of Extent of
Issuer Amount Extent of Private Investment
Sr. No. ‘Unrated’ ‘Unlisted’
Placement Grade’
Securities Securities
Securities
(1) (2) (3) (4) (5) (6) (7)
Current Previous Current Previous Current Previous Current Previous Current Previous
year Year year Year year Year year Year year Year
a) PSUs
b) FIs
c) Banks
5
Substituted with effect from May 18, 2026, vide Reserve Bank of India (Commercial Banks – Financial Statements:
Presentation and Disclosures) Sixth Amendment Directions, 2026 dated May 18, 2026.
52

Extent of ‘Below
Extent of Extent of
Issuer Amount Extent of Private Investment
Sr. No. ‘Unrated’ ‘Unlisted’
Placement Grade’
Securities Securities
Securities
d) Private
Corporates
e) Subsidiaries /
Joint Ventures
f) Others
g) Provision held
towards NPI
Total
Note:
1. For a bank, the Total under column 3 shall match with the sum of total of Investments
included under the following categories in Schedule 8 to the balance sheet:
a) Investment in India in
i) Shares
ii) Debentures and Bonds
iii) Subsidiaries and / or Joint Ventures
iv) Others
b) Investment outside India in (where applicable)
i) Government securities (including local authorities)
ii) Subsidiaries and / or joint ventures abroad
iii) Other investments
2. Amounts reported under columns 4, 5, 6 and 7 above may not be mutually exclusive.
(viii) Repo transactions (in face value and market value terms)
(Amount in ₹ crore)
Minimum Maximum Daily average
Outstanding
outstanding outstanding outstanding
as on March
during the during the during the
31
year year year
FV MV FV MV FV MV FV MV
i) Securities sold under repo
a) Government securities
b) Corporate debt securities
c) Any other securities
ii) Securities purchased under reverse repo
a) Government securities
b) Corporate debt securities
c) Any other securities
53

Note:
(a) FV’ means Face Value and ‘MV’ means Market Value.
(b) The disclosure shall be as specified in the Reserve Bank of India
(Repurchase Transactions (Repo)) Directions, 2025 as amended from
time to time. For ease of reference the disclosure template as on the
date of issuance of this Master Direction has been reproduced here.
54

(ix) Government Security Lending (GSL) transactions (in market value
terms)
As at … (current year balance sheet date)
(Amount in ₹ crore)
Total volume
Minimum Maximum Daily average
of Outstanding
outstanding outstanding outstanding
transactions as on March
during the during the during the
during the 31
year year year
year
Securities lent through GSL
transactions
Securities borrowed through GSL
transactions
Securities placed as collateral under
GSL transactions
Securities received as collateral under
GSL Transactions
As at … (previous year balance sheet date)
(Amount in ₹ crore)
Total volume
Minimum Maximum Daily average
of Outstanding
outstanding outstanding outstanding
transactions as on March
during the during the during the
during the 31
year year year
year
Securities lent through GSL
transactions
Securities borrowed through GSL
transactions
Securities placed as collateral under
GSL Transactions
Securities received as collateral under
GSL Transactions
Note: The disclosure shall be as specified in the Reserve Bank of India (Government Securities
Lending) Directions, 2023, as amended from time to time. For ease of reference the disclosure template
as on the date of issuance of this Direction has been reproduced here.
55

(4) Asset quality
(i) Classification of advances and provisions held
Standard Non-Performing Total
Total Non-
Total Standard
Sub-standard Doubtful Loss Performing
Advances
Advances
Gross Standard Advances and NPAs
Opening Balance
Add: Additions during the year
Less: Reductions during the year*
Closing balance
*Reductions in Gross NPAs due to:
i) Upgradation
ii) Recoveries (excluding recoveries from upgraded accounts)
iii) Technical / Prudential Write-offs
iv) Write-offs other than those under (iii) above
Provisions (excluding Floating Provisions)
Opening balance of provisions held
Add: Fresh provisions made during the year
Less: Excess provision reversed / Write-off loans
Closing balance of provisions held
Net NPAs
Opening Balance

Standard Non-Performing Total
Total Non-
Total Standard
Sub-standard Doubtful Loss Performing
Advances
Advances
Add: Fresh additions during the year
Less: Reductions during the year
Closing Balance
Floating Provisions
Opening Balance
Add: Additional provisions made during the year
Less: Amount drawn down during the year
(Rationale for drawdown may be explained by way of a note below the table)
Closing balance of floating provisions
Technical write-offs and the recoveries made thereon
Opening balance of Technical / Prudential written-off accounts
Add: Technical / Prudential write-offs during the year
Less: Recoveries made from previously technical / prudential written-off
accounts during the year
Closing balance
Note:
1) While making disclosures in audited annual financial statements, a bank should invariably provide the figures for both the current and previous year to facilitate comparison.
2) Technical or prudential write-off is the amount of non-performing loans which are outstanding in the books of the branches but have been written-off (fully or partially) at Head Office level. Amount of
Technical write-off should be certified by statutory auditors.
3) To the extent that floating provisions have not been reckoned for Tier 2 capital, they may be netted off from Gross NPAs to arrive at Net NPAs.
57

Ratios
(in percent) Current Previous
(to be computed as per applicable regulatory instructions) Year Year
Gross NPA to Gross Advances
Net NPA to Net Advances
Provision coverage ratio
(ii) Sector-wise advances and Gross NPAs
(Amounts in ₹ crore)
Current Year Previous Year
Sr. Percentage of Percentage of
Sector*
No. Outstanding Gross NPAs to Outstanding Total Gross NPAs to
Gross NPAs Gross NPAs
Total Advances Total Advances Advances Total Advances in
in that sector that sector
i) Priority Sector
a) Agriculture and allied activities
Advances to industries sector eligible as priority sector
b)
lending
c) Services
d) Personal loans
Subtotal (i)
ii) Non-priority Sector
a) Agriculture and allied activities
b) Industry
c) Services
58

(Amounts in ₹ crore)
Current Year Previous Year
Sr. Percentage of Percentage of
Sector*
No. Outstanding Gross NPAs to Outstanding Total Gross NPAs to
Gross NPAs Gross NPAs
Total Advances Total Advances Advances Total Advances in
in that sector that sector
d) Personal loans
Sub-total (ii)
Total (I + ii)
*A bank shall also disclose in the format above, sub-sectors where the outstanding advances exceeds 10 percent of the outstanding total advances to that sector. For instance, if a bank’s outstanding
advances to the mining industry exceed 10 percent of the outstanding total advances to ‘Industry’ sector it shall disclose details of its outstanding advances to mining separately in the format above under
the ‘Industry’ sector.
(iii) Overseas assets, NPAs and revenue
(Amount in ₹ crore)
Particulars Current Year Previous Year
Total Assets
Total NPAs
Total Revenue
Note: If a bank does not have any overseas assets, NPAs and revenues, in both the current and
previous year it may omit this disclosure.
59

(iv) Particulars of resolution plan and restructuring
(a) A bank covered by the ‘Prudential Framework for Resolution of Stressed
Assets’ issued vide Reserve Bank of India (Commercial Banks – Resolution
of Stressed Assets) Directions, 2025 shall make appropriate disclosures in
its financial statements relating to resolution plans implemented.
(b) As per the referenced circular, acquisition of shares due to conversion of
debt to equity during a restructuring process shall be exempted from
regulatory ceilings / restrictions on Capital Market Exposures, investment in
Para-Banking activities and intra-group exposure. However, details of the
same shall be disclosed by a bank in the ‘Notes to Accounts’ to its Annual
Financial Statements.
(v) Divergence in asset classification and provisioning: A bank shall make
suitable disclosures as tabulated below, if either or both of the following
conditions are satisfied:
(a) the additional provisioning for NPAs assessed by RBI as part of its
supervisory process, exceeds five per cent of the reported profit before
provisions and contingencies for the reference period, and
(b) the additional Gross NPAs identified by the RBI as part of its supervisory
process exceed five per cent of the reported incremental Gross NPAs for
the reference period.
Explanation - Reported incremental Gross NPAs refers to additions during
the reference year to the Gross NPAs as disclosed in the Notes to the
Financial Statements of the reference period.
(Amount in ₹ crore)
Sr. Particulars Amount
1. Gross NPAs as on March 31, 20XX* as reported by the bank
2. Gross NPAs as on March 31, 20XX as assessed by RBI
3. Divergence in Gross NPAs (2-1)
4. Net NPAs as on March 31, 20XX as reported by the bank
5. Net NPAs as on March 31, 20XX as assessed by RBI
6. Divergence in Net NPAs (5-4)
7. Provisions for NPAs as on March 31, 20XX as reported by the bank
8. Provisions for NPAs as on March 31, 20XX as assessed by RBI
9. Divergence in provisioning (8-7)
10 Reported Profit before Provisions and Contingencies for the year ended March 31, 20XX
60

Sr. Particulars Amount
11. Reported Net Profit after Tax (PAT) for the year ended March 31, 20XX
12. Adjusted (notional) Net Profit after Tax (PAT) for the year ended March 31, 20XX after
considering the divergence in provisioning
* March 31, 20XX is the close of the reference period in respect of which divergences were assessed
The disclosures, as above, shall be made in the ‘Notes to Accounts’ in the ensuing
Annual Financial Statements published immediately following communication of such
divergence by RBI to the bank.
(vi) Disclosure of transfer of loan exposure: Lenders should make appropriate
disclosures in their financial statements, under ‘Notes to Accounts’, relating to
the total amount of loans not in default / stressed loans transferred and
acquired to / from other entities as prescribed below, on a quarterly basis:
(a) In respect of loans not in default that are transferred or acquired, the
disclosures should cover, inter alia, aspects such as weighted average
maturity, weighted average holding period, retention of beneficial economic
interest, coverage of tangible security coverage, and rating-wise distribution
of rated loans. Specifically, a transferor should disclose all instances where
it has agreed to replace loans transferred to transferee(s) or pay damages
arising out of any representation or warranty. The disclosures should also
provide break-up of loans transferred / acquired through assignment /
novation and loan participation.
(b) In the case of stressed loans transferred or acquired, the following
disclosures should be made:
Details of stressed loans transferred during the year (to be made separately for loans classified as NPA
and SMA)
To Asset
Reconstruction To other transferees
(all amounts in ₹ crore) To permitted transferees
Companies (please specify)
(ARCs)
No: of accounts
Aggregate principal
outstanding of loans
transferred
Weighted average
residual tenor of the loans
transferred
61

Details of stressed loans transferred during the year (to be made separately for loans classified as NPA
and SMA)
Net book value of loans
transferred (at the time of
transfer)
Aggregate consideration
Additional consideration
realised in respect of
accounts transferred in
earlier years
Details of loans acquired during the year
From SCBs, RRBs, Co-operative
Banks, AIFIs, SFBs and NBFCs
(all amounts in ₹ crore) From ARCs
including Housing Finance
Companies (HFCs)
Aggregate principal outstanding of loans
acquired
Aggregate consideration paid
Weighted average residual tenor of loans
acquired
(c) The transferor(s) should also make appropriate disclosures with regard to
the quantum of excess provisions reversed to the profit and loss account
on account of sale of stressed loans. Also, the lenders should disclose the
distribution of the SRs held by them across the various categories of
Recovery Ratings assigned to such SRs by the credit rating agencies.
Note: While making disclosures in audited annual financial statements, a bank should
invariably provide the figures for both the current and previous year to facilitate
comparison.
(vii) Disclosure on Co-Lending Arrangements (CLA):
(a) In addition to the applicable disclosure requirements under extant
regulations, a bank shall also prominently disclose on their website, a list of
all active CLA partners.
(b) A bank shall also make appropriate disclosures in their financial
statements, under ‘Notes to Accounts’, relating to necessary details of CLAs
on an aggregate basis. The details may inter alia include quantum of CLAs,
weighted average rate of interest, fees charged / paid, broad sectors in which
CLA was made, performance of loans under CLA, details related to default
62

loss guarantee, if any, etc. The disclosure shall be done on quarterly/annual
basis.
Note: As regards CLA, the bank shall be guided by the Reserve Bank of India (Commercial
Banks – Transfer and Distribution of Credit Risk) Directions, 2025, as amended from time to
time. These Directions shall come into force from January 1, 2026, or from any earlier date
as decided by a bank as per its internal policy (“effective date”). Any new CLA entered into
after the effective date shall be in compliance with these Directions.
(viii) Non-Fund Based (NFB) Credit Facilities: A bank shall disclose the details
of NFB credit facilities in the format given below.
As at 31st As at 31st Previous Year Previous
March 20XX March 20XX Year
Secured* Unsecured Secured* Unsecured
Portion Portion Portion Portion
I Outstanding Guarantees (₹ crore)
i) In India
ii) Outside India
II Acceptances, Endorsements and other
Obligations (₹ crore)
III Other NFB Credit facilities (₹ crore)
* Secured portion is as defined under Reserve Bank of India (Commercial Banks – Credit Facilities) Directions, 2025.
Note: As regards NFB credit limits, the bank shall be guided by the Reserve Bank of India
(Commercial Banks – Credit Facilities) Directions, 2025, as amended from time to time.
These Directions shall come into force from April 1, 2026, or from any earlier date as decided
by a bank as per its internal policy (“effective date”). Extension of any new NFB facility and
renewal of an existing NFB facility after the effective date, shall be governed in terms of
these Directions. All existing NFB facilities extended/ renewed till the effective date shall be
governed by the existing instructions as applicable to the respective bank.
(ix) Fraud accounts: A bank shall disclose details on the number and amount of
frauds as well as the provisioning thereon as per template given below.
Current year Previous year
Number of frauds reported
Amount involved in fraud (₹ crore)
Amount of provision made for such frauds (₹ crore)
Amount of unamortised provision debited from ‘other reserves’ as at the
end of the year (₹ crore)
63

(x) Disclosure related to project finance: A bank shall make appropriate
disclosures related to project finance as below:
Number of Total outstanding
Sl. No Item Description
accounts (in ₹ crore)
Projects under implementation accounts at the
1
beginning of the quarter.
Projects under implementation accounts sanctioned
2
during the quarter.
Projects under implementation accounts where DCCO
3
has been achieved during the quarter
Projects under implementation accounts at the end of
4
the quarter. (1+2-3)
Out of ‘4’ – accounts in respect of which resolution
5 process involving extension in original / extended
DCCO, as the case may be, has been invoked.
Out of ‘5’ – accounts in respect of which
5.1
Resolution plan has been implemented.
Out of ‘5’ – accounts in respect of which
5.2
Resolution plan is under implementation.
Out of ‘5’ – accounts in respect of which
5.3
Resolution plan has failed.
Out of ‘5’, accounts in respect of which resolution
process involving extension in original / extended
6
DCCO, as the case may be, has been invoked due to
change in scope and size of the project.
Out of ‘5’, account in respect of which cost overrun
7 associated with extension in original / extended DCCO,
as the case may be, was funded
Out of ‘7’, accounts where SBCF was sanctioned during
7.1
financial closure and renewed continuously
Out of ‘7’, accounts where SBCF was not pre-
7.2
sanctioned or renewed continuously
Out of ‘4’ – accounts in respect of which resolution
8 process not involving extension in original / extended
DCCO, as the case may be, has been invoked.
Out of ‘8’ – accounts in respect of which Resolution plan
8.1
has been implemented.
Out of ‘8’ – accounts in respect of which Resolution plan
8.2
is under implementation.
Out of ‘8’ – accounts in respect of which Resolution plan
8.3
has failed.
Note: This is a quarterly disclosure beginning from October 1, 2025. The bank shall be guided by
the Reserve Bank of India (Commercial Banks – Resolution of Stressed Assets) Directions, 2025,
as amended from time to time.
64

(xi) Disclosure under resolution framework for COVID-19-related Stress
(a) A special window under the Prudential Framework was extended to enable
the lenders to implement a resolution plan in respect of eligible corporate
exposures, and personal loans, while classifying such exposures as
Standard.
(b) A bank shall make disclosures in the format prescribed below every half-
year, i.e., in the financial statements as on September 30 and March 31,
starting from the half-year ending September 30, 2021, till all exposures on
which resolution plan was implemented are either fully extinguished or
completely slip into NPA, whichever is earlier.
Format for disclosures to be made half yearly starting September 30, 2021
(Amounts in ₹ crore)
Exposure to accounts Exposure to
Of (A),
classified as Standard Of (A) accounts classified
aggregate Of (A)
consequent to amount as Standard
debt that amount
Type of implementation of paid by the consequent to
slipped written off
borrower resolution plan– borrowers implementation of
into NPA during the
Position as at the end during the resolution plan –
during the half-year
of the previous half- half- year Position as at the
half-year
year (A) end of this half-year
Personal Loans
Corporate
persons*
Of which MSMEs
Others
Total
* As defined in Section 3(7) of the Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code, 2016
Note: A bank that is not required by the listing requirements or otherwise to publish quarterly / half-yearly
statements, shall make the disclosures for the full year in the annual financial statements.
65

(5) Exposures
(i) Exposure to real estate sector
(Amount in ₹ crore)
Current Previous
Category
Year Year
i) Direct exposure
a) Residential Mortgages
Lending fully secured by mortgages on residential property that is or will be occupied by the
borrower or that is rented. Individual housing loans eligible for inclusion in priority sector
advances shall be shown separately. Exposure would also include non-fund based (NFB) limits.
b) Commercial Real Estate
Lending secured by mortgages on commercial real estate (office buildings, retail space,
multipurpose commercial premises, multifamily residential buildings, multi tenanted commercial
premises, industrial or warehouse space, hotels, land acquisition, development, and
construction, etc.). Exposure would also include non-fund based (NFB) limits.
c) Investments in Mortgage-Backed Securities (MBS) and other securitised exposures
i. Residential
ii. Commercial Real Estate
ii) Indirect Exposure
Fund based and non-fund-based exposures on National Housing Bank and Housing Finance
Companies.
Total Exposure to Real Estate Sector
66

(ii) 2[*****
(a) *****
(b) *****
(c) *****]
3[
(iia) Exposure to Capital Markets
(Amount in ₹ crore)
Current Previous
Sr. No. Particulars
Year Year
Direct investment in equity and preference shares; convertible bonds;
(i)
convertible debentures; units of non-debt mutual fund schemes; units of
REITs and InvITs and units of Alternative Investment Funds (AIFs)
Advances to individuals for investment in shares (including
(ii)
IPOs/FPOs/ESOPs), convertible bonds, convertible debentures, and units
of non-debt mutual fund schemes
Advances for any other purposes where shares or convertible bonds or
(iii)
convertible debentures or units of non-debt mutual fund schemes are taken
as primary security
Advances for any other purposes to the extent secured by collateral of
(iv) shares, convertible bonds, convertible debentures or units of non-debt
mutual fund schemes, where the advances are extended on the principal
strength of such collateral
(v)
All credit facilities to Capital Market Intermediaries (CMIs)
(vi)
Acquisition finance
Out of (vi) acquisition finance by overseas branches of Indian banks
Out of (vi) Bridge Finance for meeting own funds requirement of acquiring
companies
2
Deleted with effect from July 01, 2026 vide Reserve Bank of India (Commercial Banks – Financial Statements:
Presentation and Disclosures) – Third Amendment Directions, 2026 (Revised) dated March 30, 2026
3
Inserted with effect from July 01, 2026 vide Reserve Bank of India (Commercial Banks – Financial Statements:
Presentation and Disclosures) – Third Amendment Directions, 2026 (Revised) dated March 30, 2026
67

Current Previous
Sr. No. Particulars
Year Year
(vii)
Financing to non-debt mutual fund schemes.
(viii) Bridge finance to companies for meeting upfront contribution to the equity of
new companies being set up
(ix)
Underwriting commitments taken up by the banks in respect of primary issue
of shares or convertible bonds or convertible debentures or bonds where
end use is acquisition finance or units of non-debt mutual fund schemes
(x) Irrevocable Payment Commitments issued by custodian banks on behalf of
its clients in favour of clearing corporations of stock exchanges
Trade exposures of a bank, which is acting as a clearing member in equity
(xi)
derivative and commodity derivative transactions, to its client, including
funded initial margins placed on behalf of clients, where permissible
Total exposure to capital market
Note: The capital market exposure reported in the table above shall be computed in terms of Reserve Bank of India
(Commercial Banks - Concentration Risk Management) Directions, 2025 read with Reserve Bank of India (Commercial
Banks – Credit Facilities) Directions, 2025.
]
(iii) Risk category-wise country exposure
(Amount in ₹ crore)
Exposure (net) as at Provision held as at Exposure (net) as at Provision held as at
Risk Category* March… March… March… March…
(Current Year) (Current Year) (Previous Year) (Previous Year)
Insignificant
Low
Moderately Low
Moderate
Moderately High
High
Very High
Total
*Till a bank moves over to internal rating systems, it shall use the seven-category
classification followed by Export Credit Guarantee Corporation of India Ltd. (ECGC) for the
purpose of classification and making provisions for country risk exposures. ECGC shall
provide to a bank, on request, quarterly updates of their country classifications and shall also
68

inform banks in case of any sudden major changes in country classification in the interim
period.
Note: If a bank has no exposure to country risk in both the current and previous year, it may
omit disclosure of the table while mentioning that it has no exposure to country risk.
(iv) Unsecured advances: A bank shall disclose the total amount of advances
for which intangible securities such as charge over the rights, licenses,
authority, etc. have been taken as also the estimated value of such intangible
collateral as per the following format.
(Amounts in ₹ crore)
Previous
Particulars Current Year
Year
Total unsecured advances of the bank
Out of the above, amount of advances for which intangible securities such as charge over the
rights, licenses, authority, etc. have been taken
Estimated value of such intangible securities
69

(v) Factoring exposures: Factoring exposures shall be separately disclosed.
(vi) Intra-group exposures: A bank shall make the following disclosures for the
current year with comparatives for the previous year:
(a) Total amount of intra-group exposures
(b) Total amount of top 20 intra-group exposures
(c) Percentage of intra-group exposures to total exposure of the bank on
borrowers / customers
(d) Details of breach of limits on intra-group exposures and regulatory
action thereon, if any.
(vii) Unhedged foreign currency exposure: A bank shall disclose its policies to
manage currency induced credit risk. The bank shall also disclose the
incremental provisioning and capital held by it towards this risk.
(viii) Loans against gold and silver collateral
(a) Details of loans extended against eligible gold and silver collateral
Loan outstanding
Average
Particulars As % of ticket size Average Gross NPA
₹ crore Total LTV ratio (%)
(₹ crore)
Loans
1. Opening balance of the FY [(a)+(b)]
(a) Consumption loans
of which bullet repayment loans
(b) Income generating loans
2. New loans sanctioned and disbursed during
NA
the FY [(c)+(d)]
(c) Consumption loans NA
of which bullet repayment loans NA
(d) Income generating loans NA
3. Renewals sanctioned and disbursed during
NA
the FY
4.Top-up loans sanctioned and disbursed
NA
during the FY
5. Loans repaid during the FY [(e)+(f)] NA NA
(e) Consumption loans NA NA
of which bullet repayment loans NA NA
(f) Income generating loans NA NA
70

Loan outstanding
Average
Particulars As % of ticket size Average Gross NPA
₹ crore Total LTV ratio (%)
(₹ crore)
Loans
6. Non-Performing Loans recovered during the
NA NA
FY [(g) + (h)]
(g) Consumption loans NA NA
of which bullet repayment loans NA NA
(h) Income generating loans NA NA
7. Loans written off during the FY [(i) + (j)] NA NA
(i) Consumption loans NA NA
of which bullet repayment loans NA NA
(j) Income generating loans NA NA
8. Closing balance at the end of FY [(k) + (l)]
(k) Consumption loans
of which bullet repayment loans
(l) Income generating loans
Note:
(i) The bank shall be guided by the Reserve Bank of India (Commercial Banks – Credit Facilities)
Directions, 2025, as amended from time to time.
(ii) Information may be disclosed separately for loans against gold collateral and loans against silver
collateral
(iii) Average LTV ratio is calculated as ratio of sum of LTVs of loans at the time of sanction to total number
of such loans.
(b) Details of gold and silver collateral and auctions
Sr.
Particulars
No.
(a) Unclaimed gold or silver collateral at the end of the financial year (in grams)
(b) Number of loan accounts in which auctions were conducted
(c) Total outstanding in loan accounts mentioned in (b)
Gold or silver collateral acquired during the FY due to default of loans (in grams)
(d)
(e) Gold or silver collateral auctioned during the FY (in grams)
(f) Recovery made through auctions during the FY (in ₹ crore)
(g) Recovery percentage:
(h) as % of value of gold or silver collateral
(i) as % of outstanding loan
Note:
(i) Weight and value of collateral to be calculated in accordance with the Reserve Bank of India
(Commercial Banks – Credit Facilities) Directions, 2025.
71

(ii) Unclaimed gold or silver collateral means as defined under the Reserve Bank of India (Commercial
Banks – Credit Facilities) Directions, 2025.
6[ (ix) Exposures to Related Parties
Details of exposures to related parties as defined in Reserve Bank of India (Commercial
Banks – Credit Risk Management) Directions, 2025:
(Amount in ₹ crore)
Sr. Previous Current
Particulars
No. Year Year
A. Loans to Related Parties
Aggregate value of loans sanctioned to related parties
1.
during the year
Aggregate value of outstanding loans to related parties as
2.
on 31st March
Aggregate value of outstanding loans to related parties as a
3.
proportion of total credit exposure as on 31st March (in %)
Aggregate value of outstanding loans to related parties
4.
which are categorized as:
(i) Special Mention Accounts as on 31st March
(ii) Non-Performing Assets as on 31st March
Amount of provisions held in respect of loans to related
5.
parties as on 31st March
B. Contracts and Arrangements involving Related Parties
Aggregate value of contracts and arrangements awarded to
6.
related parties during the year
Aggregate value of outstanding contracts and
7.
arrangements involving related parties as on 31st March
]
(6) Concentration of deposits, advances, exposures and NPAs
(i) Concentration of deposits
(Amount in ₹ crore)
Particulars Current Year Previous Year
Total deposits of the twenty largest depositors
Percentage of deposits of twenty largest depositors to total deposits of the bank
(ii) Concentration of advances*
(Amount in ₹ crore)
Particulars Current Year Previous Year
Total advances to the twenty largest borrowers
6
Inserted with effect from April 01, 2026 vide Reserve Bank of India (Commercial Banks – Financial Statements:
Presentation and Disclosures) – Second Amendment Directions, 2026 dated January 5, 2026.
72

Particulars Current Year Previous Year
Percentage of advances to twenty largest borrowers to total advances of the bank
*Advances shall be computed based on credit exposure, i.e., funded and non-funded limits including
derivative exposures where applicable. The sanctioned limits or outstanding, whichever are higher, shall
be reckoned. However, in the case of fully drawn term loans, where there is no scope for re-drawal of any
portion of the sanctioned limit, a bank may reckon the outstanding as the credit exposure
(iii) Concentration of exposures**
(Amount in ₹ crore)
Particulars Current Year Previous Year
Total exposure to the twenty largest borrowers / customers
Percentage of exposures to the twenty largest borrowers / customers to the total
exposure of the bank on borrowers / customers
**Exposures shall be computed as per applicable RBI regulation.
(iv) Concentration of NPAs
(Amount in ₹ crore)
Current Year Previous Year
Total Exposure to the top twenty NPA accounts
Percentage of exposures to the twenty largest NPA exposure to total Gross NPAs.
(7) Derivatives
(i) Details of derivative portfolio
(all amounts in ₹ crore)
Current year Previous Year
Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Level 1 Level 2 Level 3
Interest Rate Derivatives
MTM – Assets
MTM – Liabilities
Net Gain / Loss recognised in Profit
&Loss Account
Exchange Rate Derivatives
MTM – Assets
MTM – Liabilities
Net Gain / Loss recognised in Profit
&Loss Account
Credit Risk Derivatives
MTM – Assets
MTM – Liabilities
Net Gain / Loss recognised in Profit
&Loss Account
73

Current year Previous Year
Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Level 1 Level 2 Level 3
Other Derivatives (specify)
MTM – Assets
MTM – Liabilities
Net Gain / Loss recognised in Profit
&Loss Account
(ii) Forward rate agreement / Interest rate swap
(Amount in ₹ crore)
Particulars Current Year Previous Year
i) The notional principal of swap agreements
ii) Losses which would be incurred if counterparties failed to fulfil
their obligations under the agreements
iii) Collateral required by the bank upon entering into swaps
iv) Concentration of credit risk arising from the swaps (for
example, exposures to particular industries, or swaps with
highly geared companies.)
v) The fair value of the swap book
(Note - If the swaps are linked to specific assets, liabilities, or
commitments, the fair value shall be the estimated amount that
the bank would receive or pay to terminate the swap
agreements as on the balance sheet date. For a trading swap
the fair value shall be its mark to market value)
Note: Nature and terms of the swaps including information on credit and market risk and the accounting
policies adopted for recording the swaps shall also be disclosed.
(iii) Exchange traded interest rate derivatives
(Amount in ₹ crore)
Sr.
Particulars Current Year Previous Year
No.
Notional principal amount of exchange traded interest rate
i)
derivatives undertaken during the year (instrument wise)
Notional principal amount of exchange traded interest rate
ii)
derivatives outstanding as on March 31 ….(instrument wise)
Notional principal amount of exchange traded interest rate
iii)
derivatives outstanding and not ‘highly effective’ (instrument wise)
Mark to market value of exchange traded interest rate derivatives
iv)
outstanding and not ‘highly effective’ (instrument wise)
74

(iv) Disclosures on risk exposure in derivatives
(a) Qualitative disclosures: A bank shall disclose its risk management
policies pertaining to derivatives with particular reference to the extent
to which derivatives are used, the associated risks and business
purposes served. The disclosure shall also include:
(i) the structure and organisation for management of risk in
derivatives trading,
(ii) the scope and nature of risk measurement, risk reporting and risk
monitoring systems,
(iii) policies for hedging and / or mitigating risk and strategies and
processes for monitoring the continuing effectiveness of hedges /
mitigants, and
(iv) accounting policy for recording hedge and non-hedge transactions;
recognition of income, premiums, and discounts; valuation of
outstanding contracts; provisioning, collateral, and credit risk
mitigation.
(b) Quantitative disclosures
(Amount in ₹ crore)
Current Year Previous Year
Sr.
Particular Currency Interest rate Currency Interest rate
No
Derivatives derivatives Derivatives derivatives
Derivatives (Notional Principal Amount)
a)
i) For hedging
ii) For trading
Marked to Market Positions [1]
b) i) Asset (+)
ii) Liability (-)
c) Credit Exposure [2]
Likely impact of one percentage change in
interest rate (100*PV01)
d)
i) on hedging derivatives
ii) on trading derivatives
Maximum and Minimum of 100*PV01
e)
observed during the year
75

Current Year Previous Year
Sr.
Particular Currency Interest rate Currency Interest rate
No
Derivatives derivatives Derivatives derivatives
i) on hedging
ii) on trading
1. The net position shall be shown either under asset or liability, as the case may be, for each type
of derivatives.
2. A bank may adopt the Current Exposure Method on Measurement of Credit Exposure of
Derivative Products as per extant RBI instructions.
(v) Credit default swaps
(i) A bank using a proprietary model for valuation of Credit default
swaps (CDS) positions, shall disclose the valuation as per the
proprietary model, including the rationale for using that model and an
explanation of the valuation methodology in the ‘Notes to Accounts’
in its financial statements.
(ii) The disclosure shall also include the valuation as per the CDS curve
published by Fixed Income Money Market and Derivatives
Association of India (FIMMDA) or a benchmark recommended by
FIMMDA.
Note: The requirement to disclose valuation as per the CDS curve published by
FIMMDA or a benchmark recommended by FIMMDA shall be effective once FIMMDA
starts publishing the CDS curve or recommends a valuation benchmark.
(8) Disclosures relating to securitisation
(i) In the annual ‘Notes to Accounts’, the originators should indicate the
outstanding amount of securitised assets as per books of the Special
Purpose Entities (SPEs) and total amount of exposures retained by the
originator as on the date of balance sheet to comply with the Minimum
Retention Requirement (MRR).
(ii) These figures should be based on the information duly certified by the SPE’s
auditors obtained by the originator from the SPE. These disclosures should
be made in the format given in the table below.
76

(Number / Amounts in ₹ crore)
Sl. Mar 31 Mar 31
Particulars
No. (Current Year) (Previous Year)
No of SPEs holding assets for securitisation transactions
1. originated by the originator (only the SPVs relating to
outstanding securitisation exposures to be reported here)
2. Total amount of securitised assets as per books of the SPEs
Total amount of exposures retained by the originator to comply
3.
with MRR as on the date of balance sheet
a) Off-balance sheet exposures
• First loss
• Others
b) On-balance sheet exposures
• First loss
• Others
Amount of exposures to securitisation transactions other than
4.
MRR
a) Off-balance sheet exposures
i) Exposure to own securitisations
• First loss
• Others
ii) Exposure to third party securitisations
• First loss
• Others
b) On-balance sheet exposures
i) Exposure to own securitisations
• First loss
• Others
ii) Exposure to third party securitisations
• First loss
• Others
Sale consideration received for the securitised assets and gain /
5.
loss on sale on account of securitisation
Form and quantum (outstanding value) of services provided by
6.
way of, liquidity support, post-securitisation asset servicing, etc.
77

Sl. Mar 31 Mar 31
Particulars
No. (Current Year) (Previous Year)
Performance of facility provided. Please provide separately for
each facility viz. Credit enhancement, liquidity support, servicing
agent etc. Mention percent in bracket as of total value of facility
7. provided.
(a) Amount paid
(b) Repayment received
(c) Outstanding amount
Average default rate of portfolios observed in the past. Please (may mention average
8. provide breakup separately for each asset class i.e. RMBS, default rate of
Vehicle Loans etc previous 5 years)
Amount and number of additional / top up loan given on same
9. underlying asset. Please provide breakup separately for each
asset class i.e. RMBS, Vehicle Loans, etc.
Investor complaints
10. (a) Directly / Indirectly received and;
(b) Complaints outstanding
Note: A bank shall provide table separately for ‘Simple, Transparent and Comparable’ (STC) and non-
STC transactions.
The bank shall be guided by the Reserve Bank of India (Commercial Banks – Securitisation Transactions)
Directions, 2025, as amended from time to time.
(9) Off balance sheet SPVs sponsored (which are required to be consolidated
as per accounting norms)
Name of the SPV sponsored
Domestic Overseas
(10) Transfers to Depositor Education and Awareness Fund (DEA Fund)
(Amount in ₹ crore)
Sr. No.
Particulars Current Year Previous Year
i) Opening balance of amounts transferred to DEA Fund
ii) Add: Amounts transferred to DEA Fund during the year
iii) Less: Amounts reimbursed by DEA Fund towards claims
iv) Closing balance of amounts transferred to DEA Fund
78

Sr. No.
Particulars Current Year Previous Year
A bank shall specify here that the closing balance of the amount transferred to DEA Fund, as disclosed above, are also
included under 'Schedule 12 - Contingent Liabilities - Other items for which the bank is contingently liable' or 'Contingent
Liabilities - Others,' as the case may be.
(11) Disclosure of complaints
(i) Summary information on complaints received by a bank from customers and from
the Offices of Ombudsman (previously office of banking ombudsman)
Current Previous
Sr. No Particulars
Year Year
Complaints received by the bank from its customers
1. Number of complaints pending at beginning of the year
2. Number of complaints received during the year
3. Number of complaints disposed during the year
3.1 Of which, number of complaints rejected by the bank
4. Number of complaints pending at the end of the year
Maintainable complaints received by the bank from Office of Ombudsman
Number of maintainable complaints received by the bank from Office of
5.
Ombudsman
Of 5, number of complaints resolved in favour of the bank by Office of
5.1.
Ombudsman
Of 5, number of complaints resolved through conciliation / mediation /
5.2
advisories issued by Office of Ombudsman
Of 5, number of complaints resolved after passing of Awards by Office of
5.3
Ombudsman against the bank
Number of Awards unimplemented within the stipulated time (other than those
6.
appealed)
Note: Maintainable complaints refer to complaints on the grounds specifically mentioned in Integrated Ombudsman
Scheme, 2021 (Previously Banking Ombudsman Scheme, 2006) and covered within the ambit of the Scheme.
(ii) Top five grounds of complaints received by the bank from customers
% increase /
Number of
Number of decrease in the Number of
Grounds of complaints Of 5, number of
complaints number of complaints
complaints, (i.e. pending at the complaints pending
received complaints pending at the
complaints relating to) beginning of the beyond 30 days
during the year received over the end of the year
year
previous year
1 2 3 4 5 6
Current Year
Ground - 1
Ground - 2
Ground - 3
Ground - 4
79

% increase /
Number of
Number of decrease in the Number of
Grounds of complaints Of 5, number of
complaints number of complaints
complaints, (i.e. pending at the complaints pending
received complaints pending at the
complaints relating to) beginning of the beyond 30 days
during the year received over the end of the year
year
previous year
Ground - 5
Others
Total
Previous Year
Ground - 1
Ground - 2
Ground - 3
Ground - 4
Ground - 5
Others
Total
Note: As per Master List for identifying grounds of complaints as provided in Appendix 1 to circular
CEPD.CO.PRD.Cir.No.01/13.01.013/2020-21 dated January 27, 2021 on ‘Strengthening the Grievance
Redress Mechanism of Banks’.
3. Internet / Mobile / 4. Account opening / difficulty in
1. ATM / Debit Cards 2. Credit Cards
Electronic Banking operation of accounts
6. Recovery 7. Pension and facilities for
5. Mis-selling / Para-
Agents / Direct senior citizens / differently 8. Loans and advances
banking
Sales Agents abled
9. Levy of charges without
12. Exchange of coins, issuance /
prior notice / excessive 10. Cheques / 11. Non-observance of Fair
acceptance of small denomination notes
charges / foreclosure drafts / bills Practices Code
and coins
charges
15. Facilities for customers
13. Bank Guarantees /
14. Staff visiting the branch / adherence
Letter of Credit and 16. Others
behaviour to prescribed working hours by
documentary credits
the branch, etc
(12) Disclosure of penalties imposed by the RBI
(i) Penalties imposed by the RBI under the provisions of the (a) Banking
Regulation Act, 1949, (b) Payment and Settlement Systems Act, 2007, and
(c) Government Securities Act, 2006 (for bouncing of SGL) shall be disclosed
in the ‘Notes to Accounts’ to the balance sheet in the concerned bank’s next
Annual Report.
(ii) In the case of a foreign bank, the penalty shall be disclosed in the ‘Notes to
Accounts’ to the next balance sheet for its Indian operations. A bank shall
make appropriate disclosures on the nature of the breach, number of
instances of default and the quantum of penalty imposed.
80

(iii) The defaulting participant in a reverse repo transaction shall make
appropriate disclosure on the number of instances of default as well as the
quantum of penalty paid to the RBI during the financial year.
(13) Disclosures on remuneration - Applicable to Private Sector Banks and
Foreign Banks
(i) A bank is required to make disclosure on remuneration of Whole Time
Directors / Chief Executive Officers / Material Risk Takers on an annual basis
at the minimum, in its Annual Financial Statements.
(ii) The bank shall make the disclosures in table or chart format and make
disclosures for previous as well as the current reporting year.
(iii) Further, a private sector bank and foreign bank (to the extent applicable),
shall disclose the following information:
Type of disclosure Information
Qualitative Information relating to the composition and mandate of the Nomination and
(a)
Remuneration Committee.
Information relating to the design and structure of remuneration processes and the key
(b)
features and objectives of remuneration policy.
Description of the ways in which current and future risks are taken into account in the
(c) remuneration processes. It should include the nature and type of the key measures
used to take account of these risks.
Description of the ways in which the bank seeks to link performance during a
(d)
performance measurement period with levels of remuneration.
A discussion of the bank’s policy on deferral and vesting of variable remuneration and
(e) a discussion of the bank’s policy and criteria for adjusting deferred remuneration before
vesting and after vesting.
Description of the different forms of variable remuneration (i.e., cash and types of
(f) share-linked instruments) that the bank utilises and the rationale for using these
different forms.
Current Previous
Year Year
Quantitative Number of meetings held by the
disclosures Nomination and Remuneration Committee
(g)
(The quantitative during the financial year and remuneration
disclosures should only paid to its members.
81

Current Previous
Year Year
cover Whole Time (i) Number of employees having received
Directors / Chief a variable remuneration award during the
Executive Officer / financial year.
Material Risk Takers) (ii) Number and total amount of sign-on /
(h)
joining bonus made during the financial
year.
(iii) Details of severance pay, in addition to
accrued benefits, if any.
(i) Total amount of outstanding deferred
remuneration, split into cash, shares and
(i) share linked instruments and other forms.
(ii) Total amount of deferred remuneration
paid out in the financial year.
Breakdown of amount of remuneration
(j) awards for the financial year to show fixed
and variable, deferred and non-deferred.
(i) Total amount of outstanding deferred
remuneration and retained remuneration
exposed to ex post explicit and / or implicit
adjustments.
(ii) Total amount of reductions during the
(k)
financial year due to ex post explicit
adjustments.
(iii) Total amount of reductions during the
financial year due to ex post implicit
adjustments.
(l) Number of MRTs identified.
(i) Number of cases where malus has been
exercised.
(ii) Number of cases where clawback has
(m)
been exercised.
(iii) Number of cases where both malus
and clawback have been exercised.
General Quantitative The mean pay for the bank as a whole
Disclosure (excluding sub-staff) and the deviation of
(n)
the pay of each of its WTDs from the mean
pay.
82

(iv) A private sector bank shall also disclose remuneration paid to the non-
executive directors on an annual basis at the minimum, in its Annual
Financial Statements.
(v) Share-linked instruments should be fair valued on the date of grant by the
bank using Black-Scholes model. The fair value thus arrived at should be
recognised as an expense beginning with the accounting period for which
approval has been granted.
(14) Other Disclosures
(i) Business ratios
Particular Current Year Previous Year
i) Interest Income as a percentage to Working Funds1
ii) Non-interest income as a percentage to Working Funds1
iii) Cost of Deposits
iv) Net Interest Margin2
v) Operating Profit as a percentage to Working Funds1
vi) Return on Assets3
vii) Business (deposits plus advances) per employee4 (in ₹ crore)
viii) Profit per employee (in ₹ crore)
1 Working funds to be reckoned as average of total assets (excluding accumulated losses, if any) as
reported to RBI in Form X for Commercial Banks during the 12 months of the financial year.
2 Net Interest Margin = Net Interest Income / Average Interest Earning Assets where Net Interest Income
= Interest Income – Interest Expense.
3 Return on Assets would be with reference to average working funds (i.e., total of assets excluding
accumulated losses, if any).
4 For the purpose of computation of business per employee (deposits plus advances), inter-bank deposits
shall be excluded.
(ii) Bancassurance business: The details of fees / brokerage earned in respect
of insurance broking, agency and bancassurance business undertaken by a
bank shall be disclosed for both the current year and previous year.
(iii) Marketing and distribution: A bank shall disclose the details of fees /
remuneration received in respect of the marketing and distribution function
(excluding bancassurance business) undertaken by it.
83

(iv) Disclosures regarding Priority Sector Lending Certificates (PSLCs):
The amount of PSLCs (category-wise) sold and purchased during the year
shall be disclosed.
(v) Provisions and contingencies
(Amount in ₹ crore)
Provision debited to Profit and Loss Account Current Year Previous Year
i) Provisions for NPI
ii) Provision towards NPA
iii) Provision made towards Income tax
iv) Other Provisions and Contingencies (with details)
(vi) Implementation of IFRS converged Indian Accounting Standards (Ind
AS)
(a) As the legislative amendments recommended by the Reserve Bank are
under consideration of the Government of India, implementation of Indian
Accounting Standards (Ind AS) for banks has been deferred till further
notice.
(b) However, a bank shall continue to disclose the strategy for Ind AS
implementation, including the progress made in this regard. These
disclosures shall be made until implementation of Ind AS.
(vii) Payment of DICGC Insurance Premium
7[A bank shall disclose in the annual report that ‘deposit insurance premium
as applicable was paid to DICGC within the prescribed timelines’. In case the
bank has not paid as per the required timelines, the same shall also be
disclosed.]
(viii) Disclosure on amortisation of expenditure on account of enhancement
in family pension of employees of banks
7
Substituted with effect from April 01, 2026 vide Reserve Bank of India (Commercial Banks – Financial Statements:
Presentation and Disclosures) – Fifth Amendment Directions, 2026 dated March 16, 2026.
84

(Applicable for banks covered under the 11th Bipartite Settlement and Joint
Note dated November 11, 2020)
A bank may take the following course of action to provide for additional liability
on account of revision in family pension consequent to the 11th Bipartite
Settlement and Joint Note dated November 11, 2020.
(a) The liability for enhancement of family pension shall be fully recognised as
per applicable accounting standards.
(b) The expenditure, if not fully charged to the Profit and Loss Account during
the financial year 2021-22, be amortised over a period not exceeding five
years beginning with the financial year ending March 31, 2022, subject to a
minimum of 1/5th of the total amount involved being expensed every year.
(c) Appropriate disclosure of the accounting policy followed in this regard shall
be made in the ‘Notes to Accounts’ to the financial statements. A bank shall
also disclose the amount of unamortised expenditure and the consequential
net profit if the unamortised expenditure had been fully recognised in the
Profit & Loss Account.
(ix) Disclosure of Letters of Comfort (LoCs) issued by banks: A bank should
disclose the full particulars of all the Letters of Comfort (LoCs) issued by it
during the year, including their assessed financial impact, as also their
assessed cumulative financial obligations under the LoCs issued by it in the
past and outstanding, in its published financial statements, as part of the
‘Notes to Accounts’.
(x) Portfolio-level information on the use of funds raised from green
deposits
(Amount in ₹ crore)
Current Previous
Particulars Financial Financial Cumulative*
Year Year
Total green deposits raised (A)
Use of green deposit funds**
(1) Renewable Energy
(2) Energy Efficiency
(3) Clean Transportation
85

(4) Climate Change Adaptation
(5) Sustainable Water and Waste Management
(6) Pollution Prevention and Control
(7) Green Buildings
(8) Sustainable Management of Living Natural Resources and Land Use
(9) Terrestrial and Aquatic Biodiversity Conservation
Total Green Deposit funds allocated (B = Sum of 1 to 9)
Amount of Green Deposit funds not allocated (C = A – B)
Details of the temporary allocation of green deposit proceeds pending
their allocation to the eligible green activities / projects
* This shall contain the cumulative amount since the bank started offering green deposits. For example, if a bank has
commenced raising green deposits from June 1, 2023, then the annual financial statement for the period ending March 31,
2025, would contain particulars of deposits raised and allocated from June 1, 2023, till March 31, 2025. Further, the actual
amount of green deposits raised during the year and use of such funds shall be given under this disclosure.
**Under each category, a bank may provide sub-categories based on the funds allocated to each sub-sector. For example,
the bank may provide sub-categories like solar energy, wind energy, etc. under ‘Renewable Energy’.
86

Chapter-IV Consolidated Financial Statements
11. In addition to standalone financial statements prepared as per the formats
prescribed under Section 29 of Banking Regulation Act, 1949, a bank, whether
listed or unlisted, shall prepare and disclose CFS in its Annual Reports, in the
formats prescribed in Annex II.
Explanation: The CFS shall normally include a consolidated balance sheet,
consolidated statement of profit and loss, principal accounting policies, and ‘Notes
to Accounts’.
12. The CFS for the bank shall also be submitted to the Department of Supervision
(DoS), RBI within one month from the publication of the bank’s annual accounts.
13. CFS shall be prepared in terms of the applicable accounting standards for the
bank.
Explanation 1: For the purpose of financial reporting, the terms 'parent',
'subsidiary', ‘associate’, ‘joint venture’, 'control', and 'group' shall have the same
meaning as ascribed to them in the applicable accounting standards for the bank.
Explanation 2: An RRB shall be treated as an ‘associate’ in the CFS of its sponsor
bank.
14. A parent presenting CFS shall consolidate all subsidiaries - domestic as well as
foreign, except those specifically permitted to be excluded under the applicable
accounting standards.
15. The responsibility of determining whether a particular entity shall be included or
not for consolidation would be that of the Management of the parent entity.
Provided that, the reasons for not consolidating a subsidiary shall be disclosed in
the CFS.
Provided further that, the Statutory Auditors shall mention in their audit report, if
they are of the opinion that an entity which ought to have been consolidated has
been omitted.
16. In cases where different entities in a group are governed by different accounting
norms laid down by the concerned regulator(s), the balance sheet size may be
87

used to determine the dominant activity and accounting norms specified by its
regulator may be used for the consolidation of similar transactions and events.
Provided that, where banking is the dominant activity, accounting norms applicable
to a bank shall be used for consolidation purposes in respect of like transactions
and other events in similar circumstances.
17. The valuation of investments by the bank in subsidiaries that are not consolidated
and associates that are not included using the ‘Equity Method’ shall be as per the
relevant valuation norms issued by the RBI.
18. The Board of Directors of the bank shall invariably record the intent of holding the
investment for a temporary period or otherwise at the time of investment in the
subsidiary, associate, and joint venture.
Provided that, in the absence of a record of such intent by the Board at the time of
such investment, the investee entity shall be consolidated into the CFS.
88

Chapter-V Other Instructions
A. Inter-branch account - provisioning for net debit balance
19. A bank shall adhere to following guidelines for unreconciled inter-branch account
entries.
(1) The bank shall segregate the credit entries outstanding for more than five years in
the inter-branch account and transfer them to a separate ‘Blocked Account’ which
shall be shown under ‘Other Liabilities and Provisions - Others’.
(2) Any adjustment from the Blocked Account should be permitted only with the
authorisation of two officials, one of whom should be from the Controlling / Head
Office if the amount exceeds ₹ One lakh.
(3) The balance in Blocked Account shall be reckoned as a liability for the purpose of
the maintenance of Cash Reserve Ratio (CRR) and Statutory Liquidity Ratio
(SLR).
(4) The bank shall maintain category-wise (head-wise) accounts for various types of
transactions put through inter-branch accounts, so that the netting can be done
category-wise. As on the balance sheet date, the bank shall segregate the debit
and credit entries remaining unreconciled for more than six months and arrive at
the net position category-wise, while also considering the balance in the Blocked
Account.
(5) The net debit under all the categories of inter-branch accounts shall be aggregated
and a provision equivalent to 100 per cent of the aggregate net debit shall be made.
Provided that, the bank shall ensure that the net debit in one category is not set-
off against net credit in another category.
B. Reconciliation of Nostro account and treatment of outstanding entries
20. Treatment of outstanding entries in Nostro accounts of a bank shall be as under.
(1) The bank shall take steps to have a strong control over reconciliation and put in
place a system of real-time reconciliation, which provides for immediate escalation
of differences, if any.
89

(2) There shall be close monitoring of pending items in Nostro accounts by top
management at short intervals.
(3) All unreconciled credit entries in Nostro accounts which are outstanding for more
than three years shall be transferred to a Blocked Account and shown as
outstanding liabilities.
(4) The balance in the Blocked Account shall be reckoned for the purpose of CRR /
SLR.
(5) A bank shall make 100 per cent provision in respect of all unreconciled debit entries
in the Nostro accounts, which are outstanding for more than two years.
(6) A bank which, in the past, was permitted to transfer to profit and loss account
(followed by subsequent appropriation to general reserve) outstanding credit
entries of individual value less than USD 2,500 or equivalent in Nostro accounts
originated up to March 31, 2002, subject to certain conditions, shall ensure that
any future claims in respect of these entries are honoured.
Explanation: The amount appropriated to the general reserve shall not be available
for the declaration of dividend.
C. Transfer to / appropriation from Reserve funds
21. In terms of Sections 17(1) and11(2)(b)(ii) of the BR Act a bank is required to
transfer, out of the balance of profit as disclosed in the profit and loss account, a
sum equivalent to not less than 20 per cent of such profit to Reserve Fund. These
provisions are a minimum statutory requirement. However, in order to augment
capital, Commercial Bank shall transfer not less than 25 per cent of the ‘net profit’
before appropriations to the Statutory Reserve.
22. Unless specifically allowed by extant regulations, the bank shall take prior approval
from the RBI before any appropriation is made from the Statutory Reserve or any
other reserve.
23. Banks are further advised that,
(1) all expenses including provisions and write-offs recognised in a period, whether
mandatory or prudential, shall be reflected in the profit and loss account for the
90

period as an ‘above the line’ item (i.e., before arriving at the net profit / loss for the
year);
(2) draw down from reserves, with the prior approval of RBI, shall be effected only
‘below the line’ (i.e. after arriving at the net profit / loss for the year); and
(3) suitable disclosures shall be made of such draw down in the ‘Notes to Accounts’
to the Balance Sheet.
(4) subject to compliance with applicable laws, banks, without prior approval of RBI,
can utilise the share premium account for meeting issue expenses of shares to the
extent that such expenses are incremental costs directly attributable to the
transaction that otherwise would have been avoided.
Provided that, the share premium account shall not be utilised for writing off the
expenses relating to the issue of debt instruments.
Explanation: For the purposes of this Direction, issue expenses shall include
registration and other regulatory fees, payments made to legal, accounting, and
other professional advisers, printing costs, and stamp duties.
D. Provisioning for fraud
24. In respect of provisioning for frauds, a bank that has reported the fraud within the
prescribed time shall have the option to make the provision for the same over a
period, not exceeding four quarters, commencing from the quarter in which the
fraud has been detected.
25. Where the bank chooses to provide for the fraud over two to four quarters and this
results in the full provisioning being made in more than one financial year, subject
to compliance with applicable laws, it may debit reserves other than the Statutory
Reserve by the amount remaining un-provided at the end of the financial year by
credit to provisions.
Provided that, it should subsequently reverse the debits to the reserves
proportionately and complete the provisioning by debiting profit and loss account,
in the successive quarters of the next financial year.
26. Where there has been delay, beyond the prescribed period, in reporting the fraud
to the RBI, the entire provisioning is required to be made at once.
91

E. Unreconciled balances
27. Unreconciled credit balances in any transitory account representing unclaimed
balances shall not be transferred to the profit and loss account or to any reserves.
F. Deferred tax liability (DTL) on Special Reserve created under Section 36(1)
(viii) of the Income Tax Act, 1961
28. A bank shall make provisions for DTL on the Special Reserve created under
Section 36(1)(viii) of Income Tax Act, 1961.
G. Window dressing
29. A bank shall ensure that balance sheet and profit and loss account reflect true and
fair picture of its financial position.
30. Instances of window dressing of financials, short provisioning, misclassification of
NPAs, under-reporting / incorrect computation of exposure / risk weight, incorrect
capitalisation of expenses, capitalisation of interest on NPAs, deliberate inflation
of asset and liabilities at the end of the financial year and subsequent reversal
immediately in next financial year, etc. shall be viewed seriously and appropriate
penal action in terms of the provisions of the BR Act shall be considered.
92

Chapter-VI Repeal and Other Provisions
A. Repeal and saving
31. With the issue of these Directions, the existing Directions, instructions, and
guidelines relating to Financial Statements- Presentation and Disclosures as
applicable to Commercial Banks stand repealed, as communicated vide circular
DOR.RRC.REC.302/33-01-010/2025-26 dated November 28, 2025. The
directions, instructions, and guidelines repealed prior to the issuance of these
Directions shall continue to remain repealed.
32. Notwithstanding such repeal, any action taken or purported to have been taken,
or initiated under the repealed Directions, instructions, or guidelines shall continue
to be governed by the provisions thereof. All approvals or acknowledgments
granted under these repealed lists shall be deemed as governed by these
Directions. Further, the repeal of these directions, instructions, or guidelines shall
not in any way prejudicially affect:
a. any right, obligation or liability acquired, accrued, or incurred thereunder;
b. any penalty, forfeiture, or punishment incurred in respect of any contravention
committed thereunder;
c. any investigation, legal proceeding, or remedy in respect of any such right,
privilege, obligation, liability, penalty, forfeiture, or punishment as aforesaid; and
any such investigation, legal proceedings or remedy may be instituted,
continued, or enforced and any such penalty, forfeiture or punishment may be
imposed as if those directions, instructions, or guidelines had not been
repealed.
B. Application of other laws not barred
33. The provisions of these Directions shall be in addition to, and not in derogation of
the provisions of any other laws, rules, regulations or directions, for the time being
in force.
C. Interpretations
34. For the purpose of giving effect to the provisions of these Directions or in order to
remove any difficulties in the application or interpretation of the provisions of these
Directions, the RBI may, if it considers necessary, issue necessary clarifications in
93

respect of any matter covered herein and the interpretation of any provision of
these Directions given by the RBI shall be final and binding.
(Sunil T S Nair)
Chief General Manager
94

Annex I
Format of the Balance Sheet and Profit and Loss Account
(Form A and Form B reproduced from original Government of India Notification
SO 240(E) dated March 26, 1992)
Form A
Form of Balance Sheet
Balance Sheet of ___________________ (here enter name of the Banking
Company)
Balance as on March 31, ________ (Year)
(000’s omitted)
Schedule As on March As on March 31,
31, ___ ___
(Current year) (Previous year)
Capital and Liabilities
Capital 1
Reserves and Surplus 2
Deposits 3
Borrowings 4
Other liabilities and
5
provisions
Total
Assets
Cash and balances with
6
RBI
Balance with banks and
money at call and short 7
notice
Investments 8
Advances 9
Fixed Assets 10
Other Assets 11
Total
Contingent liabilities 12
Bills for collection
95

Schedule 1 – Capital
As on March 31, As on March 31,
___ ___
(Current year) (Previous year)
I For Nationalised Banks
Capital (Fully owned by Central Government)
II. For Banks incorporated outside India
Capital
(i) The amount brought in by banks by way of
start-up capital as prescribed by RBI should be
shown under this head.
(ii) Amount of deposit kept with the RBI under
Section 11(2) of the Banking Regulation Act,
1949.
Total
III. For Other Banks
Authorised Capital
(_______ shares of ₹ ______ each)
Issued Capital
(_______ shares of ₹ ______ each)
Subscribed Capital
(_______ shares of ₹ ______ each)
Called-up Capital
(_______ shares of ₹ ______ each)
Less: Calls unpaid
Add: Forfeited shares
96

Schedule 2 - Reserves and Surplus
As on March 31, As on March 31,
___ ___
(Current year) (Previous year)
I. Statutory Reserves
Opening Balance
Additions during the year
Deductions during the year
II. Capital Reserves
Opening Balance
Additions during the year
Deductions during the year
III. Share Premium
Opening Balance
Additions during the year
Deductions during the year
IV. Revenue and Other Reserves
Opening Balance
Additions during the year
Deductions during the year
V. Balance in Profit and Loss Account
Total (I, II, III, IV and V)
97

Schedule 3 – Deposits
As on March As on March 31,
31, ___ ___
(Current year) (Previous year)
A.I. Demand deposits
(i) From banks
(ii) From others
II. Savings Bank Deposits
III. Term Deposits
(i) From banks
(ii) From others
Total (I, II and III)
B. (i) Deposits of branches in India
(ii) Deposits of branches outside India
Total
98

Schedule 4 – Borrowings
As on March 31, As on March 31,
___ ___
(Current year) (Previous year)
I. Borrowings in India
(a) RBI
(b) Other banks
(c) Other institutions and agencies
II. Borrowings outside India
Total (I and II)
Secured borrowings included in I and II
above -Rs.
99

Schedule 5 - Other Liabilities and Provisions
As on March 31, As on March 31,
___ ___
(Current year) (Previous year)
I. Bills payable
II. Inter-office adjustment (net)
III. Interest accrued
IV. Others (including provisions)
Total
100

Schedule 6 - Cash and Balances with RBI
As on March 31, As on March 31,
___ ___
(Current year) (Previous year)
I. Cash in hand (including foreign currency
notes)
II. Balances with RBI
(i) in Current Account
(ii) in Other Accounts
Total (I and II)
101

Schedule 7 - Balances with Banks and Money at Call and Short Notice
As on March 31, As on March 31,
___ ___
(Current year) (Previous year)
I. In India
(i) Balances with banks
(a) in Current Accounts
(b) in Other Deposit Accounts
(ii) Money at call and short notice
(a) with banks
(b) with other institutions
Total (i and ii)
II. Outside India
(i) in Current Accounts
(ii) in Other Deposit Accounts
(iii) Money at call and short notice
Total (i, ii and iii)
Grand Total (I and II)
102

Schedule 8 – Investments
As on March 31, As on March 31,
___ ___
(Current year) (Previous year)
I. Investments in India in
(i) Government Securities
(ii) Other approved securities
(iii) Shares
(iv) Debentures and Bonds
(v) Subsidiaries and / or joint ventures
(vi) Others (to be specified)
Total
II. Investments outside India in
(i) Government securities (including local
authorities)
(ii) Subsidiaries and / or joint ventures
abroad
(iii) Others investments (to be specified)
Total
Grand Total (I and II)
103

Schedule 9 – Advances
As on March As on March
31, ___ 31, ___
(Current year) (Previous year)
A. (i) Bills purchased and discounted
(ii) Cash credits, overdrafts and loans
repayable on demand
(iii) Term loans
Total
B. (i) Secured by tangible assets
(ii) Covered by Bank / Government
Guarantees
(iii) Unsecured
Total
C.I. Advances in India
(i) Priority Sectors
(ii) Public Sector
(iii) Banks
(iv) Others
Total
C.II. Advances outside India
(i) Due from banks
(ii) Due from others
(a) Bills purchased and discounted
(b) Syndicated loans
(c) Others
Total
Grand Total (C.I and II)
104

Schedule 10 - Fixed Assets
As on March 31, As on March 31,
___ ___
(Current year) (Previous year)
I. Premises
At cost as on March 31 of the preceding year
Additions during the year
Deductions during the year
Depreciation to date
II. Other Fixed Assets (including furniture and
fixtures)
At cost as on March 31 of the preceding year
Additions during the year
Deductions during the year
Depreciation to date
Total (I and II)
105

Schedule 11 - Other Assets
As on March 31, As on March 31,
___ ___
(Current year) (Previous year)
I. Inter-office adjustments (net)
II. Interest accrued
III. Tax paid in advance / tax deducted at source
IV. Stationery and stamps
V. Non-banking assets acquired in satisfaction
of claims
VI. Others *
Total
* In case there is any unadjusted balance of loss the same may be shown under this item with
appropriate foot-note.
106

Schedule 12 - Contingent Liabilities
As on March 31, As on March 31,
___ ___
(Current year) (Previous year)
I. Claims against the bank not acknowledged
as debts
II. Liability for partly paid investments
III. Liability on account of outstanding forward
exchange contracts
IV. Guarantees given on behalf of constituents
(a) In India
(b) Outside India
V. Acceptances, endorsements and other
obligations
VI. Other items for which the bank is
contingently liable
Total
107

Form B
Form of Profit and Loss Account for the year ended on
March 31 (Year)
(000’s omitted)
Schedule Year ended on Year ended on
March 31, ___ March 31, ___
(Current year) (Previous year)
I. Income
Interest earned 13
Other income 14
Total
II. Expenditure
Interest expended 15
Operating expenses 16
Provisions and contingencies
Total
III. Profit / Loss
Net profit / loss(-) for the year
Profit / loss(-) brought forward
Total
IV. Appropriations
Transfer to statutory reserves
Transfer to other reserves
Transfer to Government /
proposed dividend
Balance carried over to balance
sheet
108

Schedule 13 - Interest Earned
Year ended on Year ended on
March 31, ___ March 31, ___
(Current year) (Previous year)
I. Interest / discount on advances / bills
II. Income on investments
III. Interest on balances with RBI and other
inter-bank funds
IV. Others
V. Total
109

Schedule 14 - Other Income
Year ended on Year ended on
March 31, ___ March 31, ___
(Current year) (Previous year)
I. Commission, exchange and brokerage
II. Profit on sale of investments
Less: Loss on sale of investments
III. Profit on revaluation of investments
Less: Loss on revaluation of investments
IV. Profit on sale of land, buildings and other
assets
Less: Loss on sale of land, buildings and
other assets
V. Profit on exchange transactions
Less: Loss on exchange transactions
VI. Income earned by way of dividends, etc.
from subsidiaries / companies and / or joint
ventures abroad / in India
VII. Miscellaneous Income
Total
Note: Under items II to V loss figures shall be shown in brackets
110

Schedule 15 - Interest Expended
Year ended on Year ended on
March 31, ___ March 31, ___
(Current year) (Previous year)
I. Interest on deposits
II. Interest on RBI / Inter-bank borrowings
III. Others
Total
111

Schedule 16 - Operating Expenses
Year ended on Year ended on
March 31, ___ March 31, ___
(Current year) (Previous year)
I. Payments to and provisions for
employees
II. Rent, taxes and lighting
III. Printing and stationery
IV. Advertisement and publicity
V. Depreciation on bank’s property
VI. Director’s fees, allowances and
expenses
VII. Auditors’ fees and expenses (including
branch auditors)
VIII. Law charges
IX. Postages, Telegrams, Telephones, etc.
X. Repairs and maintenance
XI. Insurance
XII. Other expenditure
Total
112

Annex II
Format of Consolidated Financial Statements
Format of Consolidated Balance Sheet
Consolidated Balance Sheet of ________________________
(here enter name of the parent bank)
Balance Sheet as on March 31 (Year)
(Amount in ₹ crore)
Particulars Schedule As on 31.3.__ As on 31.3.__
(current (previous
year) year)
Capital and Liabilities
Capital 1
Reserves and Surplus 2
Minority Interest 2A
Deposits 3
Borrowings 4
Other Liabilities and Provisions 5
Total
Assets
Cash and Balances with RBI 6
Balances with banks and money at call and short notice 7
Investments 8
Advances 9
Fixed Assets 10
Other Assets 11
Goodwill on Consolidation
Total
Contingent liabilities 12
Bills for collection
113

Format of Consolidated Profit and Loss Account
Consolidated Profit and Loss Account of ________________________
(here enter name of the parent bank)
Profit and Loss Account for the year ended March 31 ___
(Amount in ₹ crore)
Particulars Schedule Year ended Year ended
31.3.__ 31.3.__
(current year) (previous year)
I. Income
Interest earned 13
Other income 14
Total
II. Expenditure
Interest expended 15
Operating expenses 16
Provisions and contingencies
Total
Share of earnings / loss in Associates
Consolidated Net profit / (loss) for the year before
deducting Minorities' Interest
Less: Minorities' Interest
Consolidated profit / (loss) for the year attributable to
the group
Add: Brought forward consolidated profit / (loss)
attributable to the group
III. Appropriations
Transfer to statutory reserves
Transfer to other reserves
Transfer to Government / Proposed dividend
Balance carried over to consolidated balance sheet
Total
Earnings per Share1
1Earning per share shall be for both basic and diluted.
114

Schedule 1 – Capital
Particulars As on 31.3.__ As on 31.3.__
(current year) (previous year)
Authorised Capital
(.... Shares of ₹ ... each)
Issued Capital
(.... Shares of ₹ ... each)
Subscribed Capital
(.... Shares of ₹ ... each)
Called-up Capital
(.... Shares of ₹ ... each)
Less: Calls unpaid
Add: Forfeited shares
Total
Schedule 2 - Reserves and Surplus1
As on 31.3.__ As on 31.3.__
(current year) (previous
year)
Statutory Reserves
Capital Reserves
Capital Reserve on Consolidation2
Share Premium
Other Reserves (specify nature)
Revenue and other Reserves
Balance in Profit and Loss Account3
Total
1Opening balances, additions and deductions since the last consolidated balance sheet shall be shown under each of
the specified heads.
2Where there is more than one subsidiary and the aggregation results in Goodwill in some cases and Capital Reserves
in other cases, net effect shall be shown in Schedule 2 or Assets side after giving separate notes.
3In case of loss the balance shall be shown as a deduction.
Schedule 2A - Minority Interest
As on 31.3.__ As on 31.3.__
(current year) (previous
year)
Minority interest at the date on which the parent-subsidiary relationship
came into existence
Subsequent increase / decrease
Minority interest on the date of balance sheet
Schedule 3 – Deposits
As on 31.3.__ As on 31.3.__
Particulars
(current year) (previous year)
A. I. Demand Deposits
(i) From banks
(ii) From others
II. Savings Bank Deposits
III. Term Deposits
115

Schedule 3 – Deposits
As on 31.3.__ As on 31.3.__
Particulars
(current year) (previous year)
(i) From banks
(ii) From others
Total (I, II and III)
B. (i) Deposits of branches in India1
(ii) Deposits of branches outside India2
Total (i and ii)
1 Includes deposits of Indian branches of subsidiaries
2 Includes deposits of foreign branches of subsidiaries
Schedule 4 - Borrowings
Particulars As on 31.3.__ As on 31.3.__
(current year) (previous year)
I. Borrowings in India
(i) RBI
(ii) Other banks
(iii) Other institutions and agencies
II. Borrowings outside India
Total (I and II)
Secured borrowings included in I and II above
Schedule 5 - Other Liabilities and Provisions
As on 31.3.__ As on 31.3.__
Particulars
(current year) (previous year)
I. Bills payable
II. Inter-office adjustments (net)
III. Interest accrued
IV. Deferred Tax Liabilities
V. Others (including provisions)
Total
Schedule 6 - Cash and Balances with RBI
As on 31.3.__ As on 31.3.__
Particulars
(current year) (previous year)
I. Cash in hand (including foreign currency notes)
II. Balances with RBI
(i) In Current Account
(ii) In Other Accounts
Total (I and II)
Schedule 7 - Balances with Banks and Money at Call and Short Notice
As on 31.3.__ As on 31.3.__
Particulars
(current year) (previous year)
I. In India
(i) Balances with banks
(a) In Current accounts
(b) In Other Deposit accounts
(ii) Money at call and short notice
(a) With banks
(b) With other institutions
116

Schedule 7 - Balances with Banks and Money at Call and Short Notice
As on 31.3.__ As on 31.3.__
Particulars
(current year) (previous year)
Total (i and ii)
II. Outside India
(i) In Current Account
(ii) In Other Deposit Accounts
(iii) Money at call and short notice
Total (i, ii and iii)
Grand Total (I and II)
Schedule 8 – Investments
Particulars As on 31.3.__ As on 31.3.__
(current year) (previous year)
I. Investments in India in
(i) Government securities
(ii) Other approved securities
(iii) Shares
(iv) Debentures and Bonds
(v) Associates
(vi) Others (to be specified)
Total
II. Investments outside India in
(i) Government securities (including local authorities)
(ii) Associates
(iii) Other investments (to be specified)
Total
Grand Total (I and II)
III. Investments in India
(i) Gross value of investments
(ii) Aggregate of provisions for depreciation
(iii) Net investment
IV. Investments outside India
(i) Gross value of investments
(ii) Aggregate of provisions for depreciation
(iii) Net investment
Schedule 9 – Advances
As on 31.3.__ As on 31.3.__
Particulars
(current year) (previous year)
A. (i) Bills purchased and discounted
(ii) Cash credits, overdrafts and loans
repayable on demand
(iii) Term loans
Total (i, ii and iii)
B. (i) Secured by tangible assets (includes advances against
book debts)
(ii) Covered by Bank / Government Guarantees
(iii) Unsecured
Total (i, ii and iii)
C. I. Advances in India
(i) Priority sector
(ii) Public sector
(iii) Banks
117

Schedule 9 – Advances
As on 31.3.__ As on 31.3.__
Particulars
(current year) (previous year)
(iv) Others
Total (I, ii, iii and iv)
C.II. Advances outside India
(i) Due from banks
(ii) Due from others
(a) Bills purchased and discounted
(b) Syndicated Loans
(c) Others
Total (i and ii)
Grand Total (C.I. and C.II.)
Schedule 10 - Fixed Assets
As on 31.3.__ As on 31.3.__
Particulars
(current year) (previous year)
I. Premises
At cost as on March 31 of the preceding year
Additions during the year
Deductions during the year
Depreciation to date
IA. Premises under construction
II. Other Fixed Assets (including furniture and fixtures)
At cost (as on 31 March of the preceding year )
Additions during the year
Deductions during the year
Depreciation to date
IIA. Leased Assets
At cost as on March 31 of the preceding year
Additions during the year including adjustments
Deductions during the year including provisions
Depreciation to date
Total (I, IA, II and IIA)
III. Capital-Work-in progress (including Leased Assets) net of
Provisions
Total (I, IA, II, IIA and III)
Schedule 11 - Other Assets
Particulars As on 31.3.__ As on 31.3.__
(current year) (previous year)
I. Inter-office adjustments (net)
II. Interest accrued
III. Tax paid in advance / tax deducted at source
IV. Stationery and stamps
V. Non-banking assets acquired in satisfaction of claims
VI. Deferred Tax assets
VII. Others
Total
118

Schedule 12 - Contingent Liabilities
As on 31.3.__ As on 31.3.__
Particulars
(current year) (previous year)
I. Claims against the bank not acknowledged as debts
II. Liability for partly paid investments
III. Liability on account of outstanding forward exchange
contracts
IV. Guarantees given on behalf of constituents
(a) In India
(b) Outside India
V. Acceptances, endorsements and other obligations
VI. Other items for which the bank is contingently liable
Total
Schedule 13 - Interest Earned
Year ended 31.3.__ Year ended 31.3.__
Particulars
(current year) (previous year)
I. Interest / discount on advances / bills
II. Income on investments (including dividend)
III. Interest on balances with RBI and other inter-bank funds
IV. Others
Total
Schedule 14 - Other Income
Year ended 31.3.__ Year ended 31.3.__
Particulars
(current year) (previous year)
I. Commission, exchange and brokerage
II. Profit on sale of land, buildings and other assets
Less: Loss on sale of land, buildings and other
assets
III. Profit on exchange transactions
Less: Loss on exchange transactions
IV. Profit on sale of investments (net)
Less: Loss on sale of investments
V. Profit on revaluation of investments
Less: Loss on revaluation of investments
VI. a) Lease finance income
b) Lease management fee
c) Overdue charges
d) Interest on lease rent receivables
VII. Miscellaneous income
Total
Schedule 15 - Interest Expended
Year ended 31.3.__ Year ended 31.3.__
Particulars
(current year) (previous year)
I. Interest on deposits
II. Interest on RBI / inter-bank borrowings
III. Others
Total
119

Schedule 16 - Operating Expenses
Year ended Year ended
Particulars 31.3.__ 31.3.__
(current year) (previous year)
I. Payments to and provisions for employees
II. Rent, taxes and lighting
III. Printing and stationery
IV. Advertisement and publicity
V. (a) Depreciation on bank's property other than Leased Assets
(b) Depreciation on Leased Assets
VI. Directors' fees, allowances and expenses
VII. Auditors' fees and expenses (including branch auditors' fees
and expenses)
VIII. Law charges
IX. Postage, telegrams, telephones, etc.
X. Repairs and maintenance
XI. Insurance
XII. Amortisation of Goodwill, if any
XIII. Other expenditure
Total
Note:
1. The format prescribed above is primarily for banking subsidiaries. In case of non-banking subsidiaries if
any item of income / expenditure or assets / liabilities is not similar to those of the bank, these items shall
be separately disclosed.
2. Additional line items, headings and sub-headings shall be presented in the consolidated balance sheet
and consolidated profit and loss account and schedules thereto when required by a statute, Accounting
Standards or when such a presentation is necessary to present the true and fair view of the group's financial
position and operating results. In the preparation and presentation of CFS Accounting Standards issued by
the ICAI, to the extent applicable to banks, and the guidelines issued by RBI shall be followed.
120