भारतीय �रज़वर् बैंक
RESERVE BANK OF INDIA
RBI/DoR/2025-26/374
DoR.FIN.REC.No.293/26.03.001/2025-26 November 28, 2025
Reserve Bank of India (Asset Reconstruction Companies) Directions, 2025
(Updated as on March 10, 2026)
Table of Contents
Chapter-I Preliminary ............................................................................................................... 2
Chapter-II Role of Board of Directors, Registration and Related Matters ............................ 7
Chapter-III Guidelines on Asset Reconstruction and Securitisation .................................. 12
Chapter-IV Prudential Regulations ........................................................................................ 30
Chapter-V Governance and Conduct .................................................................................... 32
Chapter-VI Accounting and Disclosures............................................................................... 43
Chapter-VII Miscellaneous Instructions ................................................................................ 54
Chapter-VIII Repeal and Other Provisions ............................................................................ 56
Annex I .................................................................................................................................... 58
Annex II ................................................................................................................................... 61
Annex III .................................................................................................................................. 65
Annex IV .................................................................................................................................. 66
Annex V ................................................................................................................................... 71
Annex VI .................................................................................................................................. 78
1

In exercise of the powers conferred under Sections 3, 9, 10, 12 and 12A of the
Securitisation and Reconstruction of Financial Assets and Enforcement of Security
Interest Act, 2002 (54 of 2002), and of all the powers enabling it in this behalf, the Reserve
Bank being satisfied that it is necessary and expedient in the public interest so to do, and
in order to ensure prudent and efficient functioning of Asset Reconstruction Companies,
hereby issues these Directions for compliance of the same by every Asset Reconstruction
Company.
Chapter-I Preliminary
A. Short Title and Commencement
1. These Directions shall be called the Reserve Bank of India (Asset Reconstruction
Companies) Directions, 2025.
2. These Directions shall come into effect on the day they are placed on the website of
the Reserve Bank.
B. Applicability
3. These Directions shall be applicable to every Asset Reconstruction Company
(hereinafter collectively referred to as ‘ARCs’ and individually as an ‘ARC’) registered with
the Reserve Bank under Section 3 of the Securitisation and Reconstruction of Financial
Assets and Enforcement of Security Interest Act, 2002.
C. Definitions
4. In these Directions, unless the context otherwise requires, the terms used herein shall
bear the meanings assigned to them below —
(1) ‘Act’ means the Securitisation and Reconstruction of Financial Assets and
Enforcement of Security Interest Act, 2002 (54 of 2002).
(2) ‘Breakup value’ means the equity capital and reserves as reduced by intangible
assets and revaluation reserves, divided by the number of equity shares of the investee
company.
2

(3) ‘Change in management’ means effecting change by the borrower at the instance
of ARC in the person who has responsibility for the whole or substantially whole of the
management of the business of the borrower and/ or other relevant personnel.
(4) ‘Date of acquisition’ means the date on which the ownership of financial assets is
acquired by ARC either on its own books or directly in the books of the trust.
(5) ‘Deposit’ means deposit as defined in the Companies (Acceptance of Deposits)
Rules 2014 framed under Section 73 of the Companies Act, 2013.
(6) ‘Earning value’ means the value of an equity share computed by taking the average
of profits after tax as reduced by the preference dividend and adjusted for extra-ordinary
and non-recurring items, for the immediately preceding 3 years and further divided by the
number of equity shares of the investee company and capitalised at the following rate:
(i) in case of predominantly manufacturing company, 8 percent;
(ii) in case of predominantly trading company, 10 percent; and
(iii) in case of any other company, including non-banking financial company, 12
percent.
Note: If an investee company is a loss-making company, the earning value shall
be taken as zero.
(7) ‘Fair value’ means the mean of the earning value and the breakup value.
(8) ‘Net owned fund’ (hereinafter referred to as ‘NOF’) means the amount arrived at
by reducing from owned fund, the amounts representing
(i) investments of the ARC in shares of –
(a) its subsidiaries;
(b) companies in the same group;
(c) all other ARCs; and
(ii) the book value of debentures, bonds, outstanding loans and advances made
to, and deposits with -
(a) subsidiaries of the ARC; and
(b) companies in the same group,
3

to the extent such amount exceeds 10 percent of the owned fund.
(9) ‘Non-performing asset (NPA)’ in the books of an ARC means an asset in respect
of which:
(i) Interest or principal (or instalment thereof) is overdue for a period of 180
days or more from the date of acquisition or the due date as per contract between
the borrower and the originator, whichever is later;
(ii) interest or principal (or instalment thereof) is overdue for a period of 180
days or more from the date fixed for receipt thereof in the plan formulated for
realisation of the assets referred to in paragraphs 35 to 39 herein;
(iii) interest or principal (or instalment thereof) is overdue on expiry of the
planning period, where no plan is formulated for realisation of the assets referred
to in paragraphs 35 to 39 herein; or
(iv) any other receivable, if it is overdue for a period of 180 days or more in the
books of the ARC.
Provided that the Board of Directors of an ARC may, on default by the borrower,
classify an asset as an NPA even earlier than the period mentioned above (for
facilitating enforcement as provided for in Section 13 of the Act).
(10) ‘Overdue’ means an amount which remains unpaid beyond the due date.
(11) ‘Owned fund’ means
(i) the aggregate of
(a) paid up equity capital;
(b) paid up preference capital, to the extent it is compulsorily convertible
into equity capital;
(c) 1 [free reserves (excluding revaluation reserve) including quarterly
profits. Inclusion of quarterly profits shall be subject to the following
conditions:
1 Inserted with effect from March 10, 2026, vide Reserve Bank of India (Asset Reconstruction Companies)
Amendment Directions, 2026 dated March 10, 2026.
4

(i) The financial statements shall be subjected to limited review / audit
on a quarterly basis by the statutory auditors.
(ii) Such profits shall be reduced by average dividend paid in the last
three years and the amount which can be reckoned for inclusion
would be arrived at as under:
EP = NP - 0.25 *D*t
t t
Where:
EP = Eligible profit up to quarter ‘t’ of the current financial year, t
t
varies from 1 to 4
NP = Net profit up to quarter ‘t’
t
D = average dividend paid for / pertaining to the last three financial
years
Losses in the current year shall be fully deducted from Owned
Fund;]
(d) credit balance in profit and loss account;
(ii) as reduced by-
(a) the debit balance on the profit and loss account;
(b) miscellaneous expenditure (to the extent not written off or adjusted);
(c) book value of intangible assets;
(d) under/ short provision against NPA/ diminution in value of investments;
(e) over recognition of income, if any; and
(f) other deductions required on account of the items qualified by the
auditors in their report on the financial statements.
Provided that ARC shall not be required to deduct a Right-of-Use (ROU) asset
(created in terms of Ind AS 116-Leases) from Owned Fund, provided the
underlying asset being taken on lease is a tangible asset.
(12) ‘Planning period’ means a period not exceeding six months allowed for formulating
a plan for realisation of financial assets acquired for the purpose of reconstruction.
(13) ‘Standard asset’ means an asset, which is not an NPA.
5

(14) ‘Takeover of management’ means taking over of the responsibility for the
management of the business of the borrower with or without effecting change in
management personnel of the borrower by the ARC.
(15) ‘Trust’ means trust as defined in Section 3 of the Indian Trusts Act, 1882.
5. Words or expressions used but not defined herein and defined in the Act, shall have
the same meaning as assigned to them in the Act. Any other words or expressions not
defined in that Act shall have the same meaning as assigned to them in the Companies
Act, 2013.
6

Chapter-II Role of Board of Directors, Registration and Related Matters
D. Role of Board of Directors and Periodic Review
6. An ARC shall put in place a Board approved policies and establish periodic review
mechanisms to ensure sound processes and systems. An illustrative list of such policies
to be approved by the Board or a Committee(s) to which powers have been delegated is
provided below. The specific aspects to be addressed in these policies are detailed in the
relevant paragraphs of these Directions.
(1) Activities of the ARC: Taking up the role of Resolution Applicant which may, inter
alia, include the scope of activities, internal limit for sectoral exposures, etc.
(2) Financial asset acquisition policy: Policy shall cover, inter alia, procedure for
acquisition, types and desirable profile of assets, valuation procedure and plan for
realisation of financial asset to ensure that transactions take place in a transparent
manner and at a fair price in a well-informed market and the transactions are
executed on arm’s length basis by exercise of due diligence.
(3) Change in or takeover of the management of the business of the borrower.
(4) Rescheduling of debts due from borrowers.
(5) Settlement of dues payable by the borrowers: Covering aspects such as cut-off
date for one-time settlement eligibility, permissible sacrifice for various categories of
exposures while arriving at the settlement amount, and methodology for arriving at
the realisable value of the security.
(6) Conversion of debt into equity of the borrower entity.
(7) Issue of Security Receipts under each scheme formulated by the trust.
(8) Broad parameters for utilization of funds raised from Qualified Buyers under such a
scheme.
(9) Fair Practices Code.
(10) Management fee, expenses and incentives, claimed from trusts under its
management: Indicating, inter alia, the quantitative cap / limit on the management
fee / incentives under various scenarios.
7

(11) Outsourcing policy: Covering, inter alia, criteria for selection of such activities as
well as service providers, delegation of authority depending on risks and materiality
and systems to monitor and review the operations of these activities / service
providers.
(12) Code of conduct for recovery agents.
7. An illustrative list of reviews to be carried out by the Board or a Committee(s) to which
powers have been delegated is provided below. The specific aspects to be addressed in
these reviews are detailed in the relevant paragraphs of these Directions.
(1) Compliance of the Fair Practices Code.
(2) Annual Performance Review of MD / CEO and WTD.
E. Registration
8. Before commencement of the business of securitisation or asset reconstruction, an
ARC shall apply for registration and obtain a certificate of registration (CoR) from the
Reserve Bank as provided under Section 3 of the Act.
9. The ARC seeking registration shall submit its application in the application form hosted
on the Reserve Bank’s website, duly filled in with all the relevant annexures/ supporting
documents, to the Chief General Manager-in-Charge, Department of Regulation, Central
Office, Reserve Bank of India, Shahid Bhagat Singh Marg, Fort, Mumbai – 400001 or
online, through PRAVAAH Portal.
10. An ARC, which has obtained a CoR from the Reserve Bank, can undertake both
securitisation and asset reconstruction activities.
11. An ARC shall commence business within six months from the date of grant of CoR by
the Reserve Bank. Reserve Bank may grant extension up to twelve months from the date
of grant of CoR on receipt of the application from the ARC.
12. Provisions of Section 45-IA, 45-IB and 45-IC of RBI Act, 1934 shall not apply to an
ARC registered with the Reserve Bank under Section 3 of the Act.
8

13. Any entity not registered with the Reserve Bank under Section 3 of the Act may
conduct the business of securitisation or asset reconstruction outside the purview of the
Act subject to requisite authorisation/ approval.
Explanation: There may be instances wherein banks and other financial institutions
undertake certain transactions, which are in the nature of securitisation or asset
reconstruction, wherever these are permitted by their respective laws and regulations.
F. Net owned fund
14. To commence the business of securitisation or asset reconstruction, an ARC is
required to have a minimum net owned fund of ₹300 crore and thereafter, on an ongoing
basis.
15. ARC existing as on October 11, 2022 shall achieve the minimum required NOF of
₹300 crore by March 31, 2026.
16. In case of non-compliance at any of the above stages, the non-complying ARC shall
be subject to supervisory action, including prohibition on undertaking incremental
business till it reaches the required minimum NOF applicable at that time.
G. Activities of ARCs
17. An ARC shall commence/ undertake only securitisation and asset reconstruction
activities and functions provided under Section 10 of the Act.
18. In terms of the provision of Section 10(2) of the Act, ARC has been permitted to
undertake those activities as Resolution Applicants under Insolvency and Bankruptcy
Code, 2016 (IBC) which are not specifically allowed under the Act. This permission shall
be subject to the following conditions:
(1) The ARC has a minimum NOF of ₹1,000 crore.
(2) The ARC shall have a Board-approved policy regarding taking up the role of
Resolution Applicant which may, inter alia, include the scope of activities, internal limit
for sectoral exposures, etc.
(3) A committee comprising of a majority of independent directors shall be constituted
to take decisions on the proposals of submission of resolution plan under IBC.
9

(4) The ARC shall explore the possibility of preparing a panel of sector-specific
management firms/ individuals having expertise in running firms/ companies which
may be considered for managing the firms/ companies, if needed.
(5) In respect of a specific corporate insolvency resolution process (CIRP), the ARC shall
not retain any significant influence or control over the corporate debtor after five years
from the date of approval of the resolution plan by the Adjudicating Authority under
IBC. In case of non-compliance with this condition, the ARC shall not be allowed to
submit any fresh resolution plans under IBC either as a Resolution Applicant or a
Resolution Co-Applicant.
19. An ARC may, at its discretion, as a sponsor and for the purpose of establishing a joint
venture, invest in the equity share capital of another ARC.
20. An ARC may, at its discretion, deploy its funds for undertaking restructuring of
acquired loan account with the sole purpose of realizing its dues.
21. An ARC may, at its discretion, deploy any surplus funds available with it, in terms of a
Board-approved policy, in -
(1) Government securities and deposits with scheduled commercial banks, Small
Industries Development Bank of India (SIDBI), National Bank for Agriculture and
Rural Development (NABARD) or such other entity as may be specified by the
Reserve Bank from time to time.
(2) Short-term instruments viz., money market mutual funds, certificates of deposit and
corporate bonds/ commercial papers which have a short-term rating equivalent to
the long-term rating of AA- or above by an eligible credit rating agency (CRA),
subject to a cap of 10 percent of the NOF of the ARC on maximum investment in
such short-term instruments.
22. An ARC shall not invest in land or building except for the following purposes:
(1) investment by the ARC in land and building for its own use up to 10 percent of its
owned funds; and
(2) land and building acquired by the ARC in satisfaction of claims in ordinary course of
10

its business of asset reconstruction in accordance with the provisions of the Act. Any
land and/ or building acquired by the ARC, in the ordinary course of its business of
asset reconstruction while enforcing its security interest, shall be disposed of within
a period of five years from the date of such acquisition or such extended period as
may be permitted by the Reserve Bank in the interest of realisation of the dues of
the ARC.
23. An ARC shall not raise monies by way of deposit.
11

Chapter-III Guidelines on Asset Reconstruction and Securitisation
A. Asset Reconstruction
A.1 Acquisition of financial assets
24. An ARC shall frame a Board-approved 'financial asset acquisition policy' within 90
days of grant of the CoR which shall provide that transactions take place in a transparent
manner and at a fair price in a well-informed market and the transactions are executed on
arm’s length basis by exercise of due diligence. It shall clearly lay down the policies and
guidelines covering, inter alia, the following:
(1) norms and procedure for acquisition either on its own books or directly in the books
of the trust;
(2) types and the desirable profile of the assets;
(3) valuation procedure ensuring that the assets acquired have realisable value which
is capable of being reasonably estimated and independently valued; and
(4) in the case of financial assets acquired for asset reconstruction, the broad
parameters for formulation of plans for their realisation.
25. The Board may delegate powers to a committee comprising any director and/ or any
functionaries of the ARC for taking decisions on proposals for acquisition of financial
assets.
26. Deviation from the policy shall be made only with the approval of the Board.
27. Before bidding for the stressed assets, an ARC may seek adequate time, of not less
than two weeks, from the auctioning banks to conduct a meaningful due diligence of the
account by verifying the underlying assets.
28. The share of financial assets to be acquired from the bank/ financial institution shall be
appropriately and objectively worked out keeping in view the provision in the Act requiring
consent of secured creditors holding not less than 60 percent of the amount outstanding
to a borrower for the purpose of enforcement of security interest.
29. For easy and faster realisability, all the financial assets due from a single debtor to
12

various banks/financial institutions may be considered for acquisition. Similarly, financial
assets having linkages to the same collateral may be considered for acquisition to ensure
relatively faster and easy realisation.
30. Both fund and non-fund based financial assets may be included in the list of assets
for acquisition. Assets classified as special mentioned accounts (SMAs) in the books of
the originator may also be acquired.
31. Acquisition of funded assets shall not include takeover of outstanding commitments, if
any, of any bank / financial institution to lend further. Terms of acquisition of security
interest in non-fund transactions shall provide for the relative commitments to continue
with bank / financial institution till demand for funding arises.
32. As far as possible, the valuation process shall be uniform for assets of same profile. It
shall be ensured that the valuation of the financial assets is done in a scientific and
objective manner. Valuation may be done either internally or by engaging an independent
agency, depending upon the value of the assets. Ideally, valuation may be entrusted to
the committee authorised to approve acquisition of assets, which may carry out the task
in line with financial asset acquisition policy mentioned at paragraph 24.
33. An ARC shall be permitted to sell financial asset to another ARC subject to the
following conditions:
(1) The transaction is settled on cash basis;
(2) Price discovery for such transaction shall not be prejudicial to the interest of SR
holders;
(3) The selling ARC shall utilize the proceeds so received for the redemption of
underlying security receipts (SRs); and
(4) The date of redemption of underlying SRs and total period of realisation shall not
extend beyond eight years from the date of acquisition of the financial asset by the
first ARC.
34. An ARC shall not acquire financial assets from the following on a bilateral basis,
whatever may be the consideration:
13

(1) a bank/ financial institution which is the sponsor of the ARC;
(2) a bank/ financial institution which is either a lender to the ARC or a subscriber to the
fund, if any, raised by the ARC for its operations;
(3) an entity in the group to which the ARC belongs.
Provided that they may participate in the auctions of the financial assets provided such
auctions are conducted in a transparent manner, on arm’s length basis and the prices are
determined by the market forces.
A.2 Plan for realisation of financial assets
35. An ARC may, within the planning period, formulate a plan for realisation of assets which
may provide for one or more of the following measures:
(1) Change in or takeover of the management of the business of the borrower;
(2) Sale or lease of the whole or part of business of the borrower;
(3) Rescheduling of debts payable by the borrower;
(4) Enforcement of security interest in accordance with the provisions of the Act;
(5) Settlement of dues payable by the borrower;
(6) Conversion of any portion of debt into equity of a borrower company.
36. The ARC shall formulate the policy for realisation of financial assets under which the
period for realisation shall not exceed five years from the date of acquisition of the
financial asset concerned.
Provided that the Board of the ARC may increase the period for realisation of financial
assets so that the total period for realisation shall not exceed eight years from the date of
acquisition of the financial asset concerned.
37. In case, the ARC is one of the lenders in an account, where a resolution plan has
been finalised and the same extends beyond the maximum resolution period allowed for
ARCs as per paragraph 36 above, the ARC may accept a resolution period co-terminus
with other secured lenders.
38. The Board of the ARC shall specify the steps that shall be taken by the ARC to realise
the financial assets within the time frame referred to in the paragraph 36 above as the
14

case may be.
39. The qualified buyers (QBs) shall be entitled to invoke the provisions of Section 7(3) of
the Act only at the end of such extended period if the period for realisation is extended
under paragraph 36 above.
B. Measures of Asset Reconstruction
B.1 Change in or takeover of the management of the business of the borrower
40. An ARC may resort to change in or takeover of the management of the business of
the borrower for the purpose of realisation of its dues from the borrower subject to the
provisions of these guidelines.
41. The objective of these Directions is to ensure fairness, transparency, non-
discrimination and non-arbitrariness in the action of ARCs and to build in a system of
checks and balances while effecting change in or takeover of the management of the
business of the borrower by the ARCs under Section 9(1)(a) of the Act.
42. An ARC shall follow these instructions while exercising the powers conferred on them
under Section 9(1)(a) of the Act. The ARC resorting to takeover of management of the
business of the borrower shall do so after complying with the manner of takeover of the
management in accordance with the provisions of Section 15 of the Act.
43. On realisation of its dues in full, the ARC shall restore the management of the business
to the borrower as provided in Section 15(4) of the Act.
Provided that if any ARC has converted part of its debt into shares of a borrower company
and thereby acquired controlling interest in the borrower company, such ARC shall not
be liable to restore the management of the business to such borrower.
B.2 Grounds for effecting change in or takeover of management
44. An ARC shall be entitled to effect change in management or takeover of the
management of business of the borrower on any of the following grounds:
(1) the borrower defaults in repayment of the amount due under the relevant loan
agreement/s in following circumstances:
(i) non-payment of dues despite adequate cash flow and availability of other
15

resources, or
(ii) routing of transactions through banks which are not lenders/ consortium
members so as to avoid payment of dues, or
(iii) siphoning off funds to the detriment of the defaulting unit, or
misrepresentation/ falsification of records pertaining to the transactions with the
ARC.
Explanation: For the purpose of this paragraph, the default by the borrower must
be deliberate and calculated as detailed above. The ARC shall keep in view the
track record of the borrower and the decision regarding such defaults by the
borrower should not be based on isolated transactions/ incidents which are not
material.
(2) the ARC is satisfied that the management of the business of the borrower is acting
in a manner adversely affecting the interest of the creditors (including ARC) or is
failing to take necessary action to avoid any event which would adversely affect the
interest of the creditors;
(3) the ARC is satisfied that the management of the business of the borrower is not
competent to run the business resulting in losses/ non-repayment of dues to the ARC
or the key managerial personnel of the business of the borrower have not been
appointed for more than one year from the date of such vacancy which would
adversely affect the financial health of the business of the borrower or the interests
of the ARC as a secured creditor;
(4) the borrower has without the prior approval of the secured creditors (including ARCs),
sold, disposed of, charged, encumbered or alienated 10 percent or more (in
aggregate) of its assets secured to the ARC;
(5) there are reasonable grounds to believe that the borrower would be unable to pay
its debts as per terms of repayment accepted by the borrower;
(6) the borrower has entered into any arrangement or compromise with creditors without
the consent of the ARC which adversely affects the interest of the ARC or the
16

borrower has committed any act of insolvency;
(7) the borrower discontinues or threatens to discontinue any of its businesses
constituting 10 percent or more of its turnover;
(8) all or a significant part of the assets of the borrower required for or essential for its
business or operations are damaged due to the actions of the borrower;
(9) the general nature or scope of the business, operations, management, control or
ownership of the business of the borrower are altered to an extent, which in the
opinion of the ARC, materially affects the ability of the borrower to repay the loan;
(10) the ARC is satisfied that serious dispute/s have arisen among the promoters or
directors or partners of the business of the borrower, which could materially affect
the ability of the borrower to repay the loan;
(11) failure of the borrower to acquire the assets for which the loan has been availed and
utilization of the funds borrowed for other than stated purposes or disposal of the
financed assets and misuse or misappropriation of the proceeds;
(12) fraudulent transactions by the borrower in respect of the assets secured to the
creditor/s.
B.3 Eligibility conditions to exercise power for change in or takeover of
management
45. In the circumstances set forth in paragraph 44 above,
(1) an ARC may effect change in or takeover of the management of the business of the
borrower, where the amount due to it from the borrower is not less than 25 percent
of the total assets owned by the borrower; and
(2) where the borrower is financed by more than one secured creditor (including ARC),
secured creditors (including ARCs) holding not less than 60 percent of the
outstanding SRs agree to such action.
Explanation: 'Total assets' means total assets as disclosed in its latest audited
balance sheet immediately preceding the date of taking action.
17

B.4 Policy regarding change in or takeover of management
46. The ARC shall have a Board-approved policy regarding change in or takeover of the
management of the business of the borrower and the borrowers shall be made aware of
such policy of the ARC.
47. This policy shall, inter alia, include the following aspects:
(1) The ARC shall carry out due diligence exercise and record the details of the exercise,
including the findings on the circumstances which had led to default in repayment of
the dues by the borrower and why the decision to change in or takeover of the
management of the business of the borrower has become necessary.
(2) The change in or takeover of the management of the business of the borrower shall
be done only after the proposal is examined by an Independent Advisory Committee
(IAC) to be appointed by the ARC consisting of professionals having technical /
finance / legal background.
Explanation: To ensure independence of members of IAC, such members should
not be connected with the affairs of the ARC in any manner and should not receive
any pecuniary benefit from the ARC except for the services rendered for acting as
members of the IAC.
(3) The IAC shall, after assessment of the financial position of the borrower, time frame
available for recovery of the debt from the borrower, future prospects of the business
of the borrower and other relevant aspects, recommend to the ARC that it may resort
to change in or takeover of the management of the business of the borrower and that
such action would be necessary for effective running of the business leading to
recovery of its dues.
(4) The Board of Directors including at least two independent directors of the ARC should
deliberate on the recommendations of the IAC and consider the various options
available for the recovery of dues before deciding whether under the existing
circumstances, the change in or takeover of the management of the business of the
borrower is necessary and the decision shall be specifically included in the minutes.
18

(5) The ARC shall identify suitable personnel / agencies, who can take over the
management of the business of the borrower by formulating a plan for operating and
managing the business of the borrower effectively so that the dues of the ARC may
be realized from the borrower within the time frame. This plan shall also include
(i) the process for restoration of the management of the business to the borrower
in accordance with paragraphs 40 to 43 above;
(ii) borrower's rights and liabilities at the time of change in or takeover of
management by the ARC; and
(iii) at the time of restoration of management back to the borrower, rights and
liabilities of the new management taking over management of the business of
the borrower at the behest of ARC.
(6) It should be clarified to the new management by the ARC that the scope of their role
is limited to recovery of dues of the ARC by managing the affairs of the business of
the borrower in a prudent manner.
B.5 Procedure for change in or takeover of management
48. The ARC shall give a notice of 60 days to the borrower indicating its intention to effect
change in or takeover of the management of the business of the borrower and calling for
objections, if any.
49. The objections, if any, submitted by the borrower shall be initially considered by the
IAC and thereafter the objections along with the recommendations of the IAC shall be
submitted to the Board of the ARC.
50. The Board shall pass a reasoned order within a period of 30 days from the date of
expiry of the notice period, indicating the decision of the ARC regarding the change in or
takeover of the management of the business of the borrower which shall be
communicated to the borrower.
B.6 Sale or lease of a part or whole of the business of the borrower
51. No ARC shall take the measures specified in Section 9(1)(b) of the Act, until the
Reserve Bank issues necessary guidelines in this behalf.
19

B.7 Rescheduling of debts payable by the borrower
52. The ARC shall frame a Board-approved policy, laying down the broad parameters for
rescheduling of debts due from borrowers.
53. All proposals shall be supported by an acceptable business plan, projected earnings
and cash flows of the borrower.
54. The proposals shall not materially affect the asset liability management of the ARC or
the commitments given to investors.
55. The Board may delegate powers to a committee comprising any director and/ or any
functionaries of the ARC for taking decisions on proposals for rescheduling of debts.
56. Deviation from the policy shall be made only with the approval of the Board.
57. In cases, where an ARC has exposure to a borrower in respect of which a resolution
plan is under implementation in terms of the Prudential Framework on Resolution of
Stressed Assets applicable to various Regulated Entities such as Commercial
Banks/AIFIs/SFBs/NBFCs, as amended from time to time, the ARC shall also sign the inter-
creditor agreement (ICA) and adhere to all its provisions.
B.8 Enforcement of security interest
58. The ARC shall obtain, for the purpose of enforcement of security interest, the consent
of secured creditors (including ARCs) holding not less than 60 percent of the amount
outstanding to a borrower.
59. While taking recourse to the sale of secured assets in terms of Section 13(4) of the
Act, the ARC shall have the option to acquire the secured assets, either for its own use
or for resale, only if the sale is conducted through a public auction.
B.9 Settlement of dues payable by the borrower
60. Every ARC shall frame a Board-approved policy for settlement of dues payable by the
borrowers which shall, inter alia, cover aspects such as cut-off date for one-time settlement
eligibility, permissible sacrifice for various categories of exposures while arriving at the
20

settlement amount, and methodology for arriving at the realisable value of the security.
61. Settlement with the borrower shall be done only after all possible ways to recover the
dues have been examined and settlement is considered as the best option available.
62. The Net Present Value (NPV) of the settlement amount should generally be not less
than the realizable value of securities. If there is a significant variation between realisable
value of the securities recorded at the time of acquisition of financial assets and realisable
value of the securities assessed at the time of entering into a settlement, reasons thereof
shall be duly recorded.
63. The settlement amount shall preferably be paid in lump sum. Where the settlement
does not envisage payment of the entire amount agreed upon in one instalment, the
proposals shall be in line with and supported by an acceptable business plan (where
applicable), projected earnings and cash flows of the borrower.
64. Settlement of accounts pertaining to a borrower, where the aggregate outstanding
principal in the books of transferor/s in respect of all the accounts of the borrower acquired
by the ARC from such transferor/s exceeds ₹1 crore at the time of acquisition by the ARC,
shall be done as per Board approved policy, subject to the following:
(1) Settlement of dues with the borrower shall be done only after the proposal is
examined by the Independent Advisory Committee (IAC) formed in terms of
paragraph 47.
(2) The IAC, after assessing the financial position of the borrower, time frame available
for recovery of the dues from the borrower, projected earnings & cash flows of
the borrower and other relevant aspects, shall give its recommendations to the ARC
regarding settlement of dues with the borrower.
(3) The Board of Directors including at least two independent directors or a Committee of
the Board meeting the prescribed criteria, shall deliberate on the recommendations
of IAC and consider various options available for recovery of dues before deciding
whether the option of settlement of dues with the borrower is the best option available
under the existing circumstances and the decision, along with detailed rationale,
21

shall be specifically recorded in the minutes of the meeting.
Explanation:
(i) The Committee shall be chaired by an independent director and have minimum
two independent directors, including the Chair;
(ii) The Committee shall consist of at least one-third of the total strength of the
Board or three directors, whichever is higher, and at least half of the directors
attending the meetings of the Committee are independent directors;
(iii) The Committee shall be created and mandated by the full Board; and
(iv) The decisions of the Committee, along with rationale, shall be recorded in the
minutes and placed before the Board at quarterly intervals.
65. Settlement of accounts pertaining to a borrower, where the aggregate outstanding
principal in the books of transferor/s in respect of all the accounts of the borrower acquired
by the ARC from such transferor/s equals to ₹1 crore or below at the time of acquisition
by the ARC, shall be done as per Board approved policy, subject to the following:
(1) Any official who was part of the acquisition (as an individual or part of a committee)
of the concerned financial asset shall not be part of processing/ approving the
proposal for settlement of the same financial asset, in any capacity.
(2) A quarterly report on the resolution of these accounts shall be placed before the
Board / Committee of the Board formed as per the criteria prescribed in paragraph
64.
(3) The Board shall mandate a suitable reporting format so as to ensure adequate
coverage of the following aspects at the minimum:
(i) trend in number of accounts and amounts subjected to compromise settlement
(q-o-q and y-o-y);
(ii) out of (i) above, separate breakup of accounts classified as fraud, wilful default
declared by the banks and NBFCs;
(iii) amount-wise, acquisition authority wise, and business segment / asset-class
wise grouping of such accounts; and
(iv) extent and timelines of recovery in such accounts.
22

66. For settlement of dues payable by the borrowers classified as frauds or wilful
defaulters, guidelines prescribed under paragraph 64 above shall be applicable,
irrespective of the amount involved. An ARC may, at its discretion, undertake settlement
of dues in respect of accounts categorised as wilful defaulters or fraud without prejudice
to the criminal proceeding underway against such borrowers.
67. Other legal provisions
(1) The compromise settlements with the borrowers under the above framework shall
be without prejudice to the provisions of any other statute in force.
(2) Further, wherever an ARC had commenced recovery proceedings under a judicial
forum and the same is pending before such judicial forum, any settlement arrived at
with the borrower shall be subject to obtaining a consent decree from the concerned
judicial authorities.
B.10 Conversion of any portion of debt into equity of a borrower entity
68. The ARC shall frame a Board-approved policy, laying down the broad parameters for
conversion of debt into equity of the borrower entity.
69. In cases of financial assets, which have turnaround potential after restructuring but
normally with huge default and unsustainable level of debt, it shall be necessary to arrive
at sustainable level of debt, on the basis of evaluation of detailed business plan with
projected level of operations, which can be serviced by the entity.
70. A part of residual unsustainable debt may have to be converted into equity for an
optimal debt equity structure. While ARC is permitted to have significant influence or have
a say in the decisions surrounding the borrower entity’s turnaround through conversion
of debt into equity, it should not be seen to be running the entities. The shareholding of
the ARC shall not exceed 26 percent of the post converted equity of the entity under
reconstruction and shall also be in accordance with permissible foreign direct investment
limit for that specific sector.
71. However, an ARC satisfying the conditions mentioned below shall be exempted from
the limit of shareholding at 26 percent of post converted equity of the borrower entity
23

subject to compliance with the provisions of the Act, guidelines/ instructions issued by the
Reserve Bank from time to time as applicable to ARCs as well as Foreign Exchange
Management Act,1999, Reserve Bank of India Act,1934, Companies Act, 2013, Securities
and Exchange Board of India (SEBI) Regulations and other relevant statutes:
(1) The ARC shall be in compliance with the prescribed NOF requirement on an ongoing
basis;
(2) At least half of the Board of Directors of the ARC comprises of independent directors;
(3) The ARC shall delegate powers to a committee comprising majority of independent
directors for taking decisions on proposals of debt-to-equity conversion; and
(4) The equity shares acquired under the scheme shall be periodically valued and
marked to market. The frequency of valuation shall be at least once in a month.
72. The ARC shall explore the possibility of preparing a panel of sector-specific
management entities / individuals having expertise in running entities which could be
considered for managing the entities.
C. Securitisation
C.1 Special features of Security Receipts (SRs)
73. SRs cannot be strictly characterized as debt instruments since they combine the
features of both equity and debt. However, these are recognized as securities under
Securities Contracts (Regulation) Act, 1956.
74. The cash flows from the underlying assets cannot be predicted in terms of value and
intervals.
75. These instruments, when rated, would generally be below investment grade. These
instruments are privately placed.
C.2 Issuance of SRs
76. An ARC shall give effect to the provisions of Sections 7(1) and 7(2) of the Act through
one or more trusts set up exclusively for the purpose. The trusteeship of such trusts shall
vest with the ARC.
24

77. The ARC proposing to issue SRs shall, prior to such an issue, formulate a Board-
approved policy providing for issue of SRs under each scheme formulated by the trust.
78. The ARC shall transfer the assets to the said trusts at the price at which those assets
were acquired from the originator if the assets are not acquired directly on the books of
the trust.
79. The trusts shall issue SRs only to QBs and such SRs shall be transferable / assignable
only in favour of other QBs.
80. The trusts shall hold and administer the financial assets for the benefit of the QBs.
C.3 Investment in SRs issued by the trusts floated by the ARC
81. An ARC shall, by transferring funds, invest in the SRs at a minimum of either 15
percent of the transferors’ investment in the SRs or 2.5 percent of the total SRs issued,
whichever is higher, of each class of SRs issued by them under each scheme on an
ongoing basis till the redemption of all the SRs issued under such scheme.
C.4 Rating/ Grading of SRs
82. An ARC shall mandatorily obtain initial rating / grading of SRs from a SEBI registered
CRA within a period of six months from the date of acquisition of assets and declare the
Net Asset Value (NAV) of the SRs issued by it.
83. Thereafter, the ARC shall get the rating / grading of SRs reviewed from the CRA as
on June 30, and December 31 every year and declare the NAV of SRs forthwith, to enable
the QBs to value their investments in SRs.
84. The rating shall be assigned on a specifically developed rating scale called ‘recovery
rating (RR) scale’. Each rating category in the recovery scale shall have an associate
range of recovery, expressed in percentage terms, which can be used for arriving at the
NAV of SRs. Symbols should be assigned by the CRAs to the associated range of
recovery, which would inter se not deviate by a specified percentage points, say (+/ -) 10
percent. The rating would be indicative. The rating / grading should be based on ‘recovery
risk’ as against ‘default’ which is the basis for rating assignments in normal assets, i.e., how
25

much more can be recovered instead of timely payment. Rating should reflect present
value of the anticipated recoverability of the future cash flows.
85. The recovery rating shall be assessed after factoring in any other relevant obligation
and not on the original debt obligation. The other key factors that should be factored in
while assigning recovery rating are extent of debt acquired, composition of lenders,
collaterals available, security and seniority of debt, individual lender vis-à-vis institutional
lender, estimated cash flows, uncertainty in realising expected cash flows in initial period,
management, business risk, financial risk, etc. The recovery rating shall also reflect
changes like change in resolution strategy of the ARC from time to time.
86. The recovery rating should comprise of rating of not only the SRs of the scheme as a
whole but wherever feasible a desegregation of each component in the scheme, which
means that the underlying assets of each entity in the scheme forming the basket should
also be rated.
87. An ARC shall require the CRAs to disclose the assumptions and rationale behind the
rating and shall disclose these to SR holders.
88. An ARC shall retain a CRA for at least six rating cycles (of half year each). If a CRA
is changed mid-way through these six rating cycles, the ARC shall disclose the reason
for such change.
C.5 Methodology for valuation of SRs for declaration of NAV
89. Each rating category in the recovery scale shall have an associate range of recovery,
expressed in percentage terms, which can be used for computing the NAV of SRs.
90. The NAV shall be restricted within the recovery range associated with the rating
assigned to the SRs. The ARC based on its recovery experience shall choose a particular
percentage within the recovery range indicated by the CRA. The recovery rating
percentage so picked by the ARC multiplied by the face value of the SR shall give the
NAV. The ARC shall provide the rationale for selection of the particular percentage of
recovery rating.
26

Illustration: If the range of recovery is between 81% - 90%, ARC may pick up 87%
based on its judgement. If the face value of SR is ₹10, the face value will be multiplied
by the recovery percentage, i.e., 87%, to arrive at the NAV as ₹8.70.
C.6 Restructuring support finance
91. An ARC can utilize a part of funds raised under a scheme from the QBs for
restructuring of financial assets acquired under the relative scheme subject to the
following conditions:
(1) An ARC with acquired assets in excess of ₹500 crore can float the fund under a
scheme which envisages the utilization of part of funds raised from QBs in terms of
Section 7(2) of the Act, for restructuring of financial assets acquired out of such
funds.
(2) The extent of funds that shall be utilized for reconstruction purpose shall not be more
than 25 percent of the funds raised under the scheme in terms of Section 7(2) of the
Act. The funds raised to be utilized for reconstruction (within the ceiling of 25 percent)
shall be disclosed upfront in the scheme. Further, the funds utilized for
reconstruction purposes shall be separately accounted for.
(3) An ARC shall frame a Board-approved policy laying down the broad parameters for
utilization of funds raised from QBs under such a scheme.
C.7 Disclosures
92. An ARC intending to issue SRs shall make the following disclosures:
(1) Disclosures in the offer document
(i) Disclosure relating to the issuer of SRs
(a) Name, place of registered office, date of incorporation, date of
commencement of business of the ARC.
(b) Particulars of sponsors, shareholders, and a brief profile of the Directors on
the Board of the ARC with their qualifications and experience.
(c) Summary of financial information of the ARC for last five years or since
commencement of business, whichever is shorter.
27

(d) Details of securitisation/ asset reconstruction activities handled, if any, in
last eight years or since commencement of business, whichever is shorter.
This shall, inter alia, include track record of returns generated for all SR
investors on the schemes floated in last eight years.
(e) Track record of recovery rating migration and engagement with CRAs of
schemes floated in last eight years.
(f) Whether the scheme envisages the utilization of part of funds raised for
restructuring of financial assets acquired out of such funds? If so, the
percentage of funds raised which shall be utilized for restructuring purposes.
(ii) Terms of offer
(a) Objects of offer.
(b) Description of the instrument giving particulars relating to its form,
denomination, issue price, together with an averment that the transferability
of SRs is restricted to the QBs.
(c) Arrangements made for management of assets and extent of management
fee charged by the ARC.
(d) Interest rate / probable yield.
(e) Terms of payment of principal / interest, date of maturity/ redemption.
(f) Servicing and administration arrangement.
(g) Details of credit rating and rationale for the rating.
(h) Description of assets being securitized including date of acquisition,
valuation, and the interest of the ARC in the assets at the time of issue of
SRs.
(i) Geographical distribution of asset pool.
(j) Residual maturity, interest rates, outstanding principal of the asset pool.
(k) Nature and value of underlying security, expected cash flows, their quantum
and timing, credit enhancement measures.
28

(l) Policy for acquisition of assets and valuation methodology adopted.
(m) Terms of acquisition of assets from banks/ Fis.
(n) Details of performance record with the originators.
(o) Terms of replacement of assets, if any, to the asset pool.
(p) Statement of risk factors, particularly relating to future cash flows and steps
taken to mitigate the same.
(q) Arrangements, if any, for implementing asset reconstruction measures in
case of default.
(r) Duties of the trustee.
(s) Specific asset reconstruction measures, if any, on which approvals shall be
sought from investors.
(t) Grievance redressal mechanism.
(2) Disclosures on quarterly basis
(i) Defaults, prepayments, losses, if any, during the quarter.
(ii) Change in credit rating, if any.
(iii) Commonality and conflict of interest, if any, between the ARC and CRA.
(iv) Change in profile of the assets by way of accretion to or realisation of assets
from the existing pool.
(v) Collection summary for the current and previous quarter.
(vi) Any other material information which has a bearing on the earning prospects
affecting the QBs.
29

Chapter-IV Prudential Regulations
A. Capital adequacy ratio
93. An ARC shall maintain, on an ongoing basis, a capital adequacy ratio of minimum 15
percent of its total risk weighted assets.
94. Capital for the purpose of calculation of capital adequacy ratio will have the same
meaning as NOF.
95. The risk-weighted assets shall be calculated as the weighted aggregate of on-balance
sheet and off-balance sheet items as detailed hereunder:
On-balance sheet items Risk weight (in percent)
(i) Cash and deposits with scheduled 0
commercial banks/ SIDBI/ NABARD
(ii) Investments in Government securities 0
(iii) Shares in other ARCs 0
(iv) All other assets (including ROU asset) 100
Off-balance sheet items
(v) All contingent liabilities 50
Note: Assets which have been deducted from owned fund to arrive at NOF shall
have risk weight of zero percent.
B. Asset classification
96. An ARC shall, after taking into account the degree of well-defined credit weaknesses
and extent of dependence on collateral security for realisation, classify the assets held in
its own books into following categories, namely:
(1) Standard assets; and
(2) NPAs
97. The NPAs shall be classified further as-
(1) 'Sub-standard asset' for a period not exceeding 12 months from the date it was
classified as NPA;
(2) 'Doubtful asset' if the asset remains a sub-standard asset for a period exceeding 12
months;
30

(3) 'Loss asset' if-
(i) the asset is non-performing for a period exceeding 36 months;
(ii) the asset is adversely affected by a potential threat of non-recoverability due
to either erosion in the value of security or non-availability of security;
(iii) the asset has been identified as a loss asset by the ARC or its internal or
external auditor; or
(iv) the financial asset including SRs is not realized within the total time frame
specified in the plan for realisation formulated by the ARC under paragraph 36
and the ARC or the trust concerned continues to hold those assets.
98. Assets acquired by the ARC for the purpose of asset reconstruction may be treated
as standard assets during the planning period, if any.
99. Where the terms of agreement regarding interest and/ or principal relating to a
standard asset have been renegotiated or rescheduled by an ARC (otherwise than during
planning period), the asset concerned shall be classified as sub-standard asset with effect
from the date of renegotiation / rescheduling or continue to remain as a sub-standard or
doubtful asset as the case be. The asset may be upgraded as a standard asset only after
satisfactory performance for a period of 12 months as per the renegotiated / rescheduled
terms.
C. Provisioning requirements
100. Every ARC shall make provisions against NPAs, as under:
Asset category Provisioning required
Sub-standard assets A general provision of 10 percent of the outstanding
amount
Doubtful assets (i) 100 percent provision to the extent the asset is not
covered by the estimated realisable value of security
(ii) In addition to item (i) above, 50 percent of
the remaining outstanding amount
Loss assets The entire asset shall be written off
(If, for any reason, the asset is retained in the books,
100 percent thereof shall be provided for).
31

Chapter-V Governance and Conduct
A. Board and management
A.1 Fit and proper criteria for directors and CEO
101. In terms of the provisions of the Act, prior approval of the Reserve Bank is required
for appointment / re-appointment of a Director or Managing Director (MD) / Chief
Executive Officer (CEO).
102. An ARC shall undertake due diligence to determine the suitability of the person for
the post based upon track record, integrity and other ‘fit and proper’ criteria.
103. For this purpose, an ARC shall obtain necessary information and declaration from
the appointed / existing directors and MD / CEO in the format enclosed in Annex I.
104. The Nomination and Remuneration Committee shall scrutinise the declarations for
this purpose.
105. An ARC is advised to submit applications, complete in all respect, along with duly
signed Annex II and the documents/ information mentioned in Annex III to Department
of Regulation of the Reserve Bank, through the PRAVAAH portal, at least ninety days
before the vacancy arises/ the proposed date of appointment or re- appointment. Reserve
Bank may call for additional information/ documents for processing the application, if
required.
106. The declaration in Annex I with updated information shall be obtained from the
directors/ MD/ CEO on an annual basis, as on March 31 of each year. Any change in
position with reference to items in paragraphs 3 and 4 of Annex I shall be communicated,
through the PRAVAAH portal, to the Department of Regulation of the Reserve Bank for
its consideration.
107. The ARC shall require the directors to execute a covenant in the format enclosed at
Annex IV, at the time of their joining the ARC, binding them to discharge their
responsibilities to the best of their abilities, individually and collectively. This deed shall be
32

preserved by the ARC and should be made available to the Reserve Bank as and when
called for.
A.2 Age of the MD/ CEO and Whole-time Directors (WTDs)
108. A person shall not continue as MD / CEO or WTD beyond the age of 70 years.
109. Within the overall limit of 70 years, as part of their internal policy, the ARC’s Board
shall be free to prescribe a lower retirement age.
A.3 Tenure of MD/ CEO and WTDs
110. Tenure of MD / CEO or WTD shall not be for a period of more than five years at a
time and the individual shall be eligible for re- appointment.
(i) Provided that the post of the MD / CEO or WTD shall not be held by the same
incumbent for more than fifteen years continuously.
(ii) Provided further that thereafter, the individual shall be eligible for re-
appointment as MD / CEO or WTD in the same ARC, if considered necessary
and desirable by the Board, after a minimum gap of three years, subject to
meeting other conditions.
(iii) Provided further that during this three-years cooling period, the individual shall
not be appointed or associated with the ARC in any capacity, either directly or
indirectly. The ARC shall put in place appropriate measures to ensure
succession planning.
A.4 Chair and meetings of the Board of directors
111. The Chair of the Board shall be an independent director. In the absence of the Chair
of the Board, meetings of the Board shall be chaired by an independent director.
112. The quorum for the Board meetings shall be one-third of the total strength of the
Board or three directors, whichever is higher.
Provided that at least half of the directors attending the meetings of the Board
shall be independent directors.
A.5 Performance review
113. The performance of MD / CEO and WTD shall be reviewed by the Board annually.
33

A.6 Committees of the Board
114. In order to strengthen the oversight by the Board, an ARC shall constitute the
following committees of the Board as described in paragraphs 115 and 116.
115. Audit Committee:
(1) An ARC shall constitute an Audit Committee of the Board, which shall comprise of
non-executive directors only.
(2) The Chair of the Board shall not be a member of the Audit Committee.
(3) The Audit Committee shall meet at least once in a quarter with a quorum of three
members.
(4) The meetings of the Audit Committee shall be chaired by an independent director
who shall not chair any other committee of the Board.
(5) Each of the members of the Audit Committee should have the ability to
understand the financial statements as well as the notes / reports attached thereto
and at least one member shall have requisite professional expertise/ qualification in
financial accounting or financial management.
(6) The Audit Committee shall have the same powers, functions and duties as laid down
in Section 177 of the Companies Act, 2013.
(7) In addition, the Audit Committee shall periodically review and assess the
effectiveness of internal control systems, especially with respect to the asset
acquisition procedures and asset reconstruction measures followed by the ARC and
matters related thereto.
(8) The Audit Committee shall also ensure that accounting of management fee /
incentives / expenses is in compliance with the applicable regulations.
116. Nomination and Remuneration Committee:
(1) An ARC shall constitute a Nomination and Remuneration Committee of the Board
which shall have the same powers, functions and duties as laid down in Section 178
of the Companies Act, 2013.
34

(2) In addition, the Committee shall ensure 'fit and proper' status of proposed / existing
directors and sponsors.
B. Fit and Proper criteria for sponsors / investors
B.1 Determinants of fit and proper status of sponsors of ARCs
117. In determining whether the sponsor is fit and proper, Reserve Bank shall take into
account all relevant factors, as appropriate, including but not limited to, the following:
(1) The sponsor’s integrity, reputation, track record and compliance with applicable laws
and regulations;
(2) The sponsor’s track record and reputation for operating business in a manner that
is consistent with the standards of good corporate governance, integrity, in addition
to the similar assessment of individuals and other entities associated with the
sponsor;
(3) The business record and experience of the sponsor;
(4) Sources and stability of funds for acquisition and the ability to access financial
markets; and
(5) Shareholding agreements and their impact on control and management of the ARC.
B.2 Information to be furnished by the sponsors along with relevant supporting
documents
118. Information by a natural person: Self-declaration as per Form I (Part A, B and C) as
provided in Annex V.
119. Information by a legal person: Self-declaration as per Form I (Part A, B, C and D) as
provided in Annex V.
120. The ARC should furnish additional information as per Form I (Part E) as provided
in Annex V.
B.3 Continuous monitoring arrangements for due diligence in case of existing
sponsors
121. For the purpose of ensuring that all its sponsors are fit and proper, an ARC shall
35

(1) obtain within one month of the close of the financial year a declaration from all its
sponsors in Form I as provided in Annex V.
(2) furnish a certificate in Form III as provided in Annex V, by the end of May every
year, to the Reserve Bank on the changes in the status of the sponsor.
122. An ARC shall examine any information on the sponsors which may come to its notice
that may render such persons not fit and proper to hold such shares and shall immediately
furnish a report on the same to the Reserve Bank.
B.4 Prior approval for any substantial change in management by way of transfer of
shares
123. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in the terms and conditions
stipulated in the CoR issued under Section 3 of the Act, an ARC shall obtain prior approval
of the Reserve Bank only for transfers that result in substantial change in management
namely:
(1) any transfer or fresh issuance of shares resulting in a new sponsor
(2) any transfer or fresh issuance of shares resulting in cessation of an existing sponsor
(3) an aggregate transfer of 10 percent or more of the total paid up share capital of the
ARC by a sponsor during the period of five years commencing from the date of the
CoR
Explanation: For the purposes of this paragraph, a transfer shall be deemed to be a
transfer of more than 10 percent of the total paid up share capital of the ARC if the
aggregate of all the transfer of shares made by the sponsor prior to that transfer,
and including that transfer, is 10 percent or more of the total paid up share capital
of the ARC.
124. The ARC shall make an application, through PRAVAAH portal, along with Form II as
provided in Annex V and information mentioned at paragraphs 118 to 120 above, for
Reserve Bank’s prior approval for change in shareholding of the ARCs.
36

125. The Reserve Bank shall, inter alia, seek feedback on the persons from other domestic
as well as foreign regulators and enforcement and investigative agencies as deemed
appropriate to make an assessment on whether a sponsor is fit and proper.
B.5 Investment in ARCs from FATF non-compliant jurisdictions
126. New investors from or through non-compliant Financial Action Task Force (FATF)
jurisdictions, whether in existing ARCs or in companies seeking CoR, are not allowed to
directly or indirectly acquire ‘significant influence’ in the investee, as defined in the
applicable accounting standards. In other words, fresh investors (directly or indirectly) from
such jurisdictions in aggregate should be less than the threshold of 20 percent of the
voting power (including potential voting power) of the ARC.
Explanation:
(1) The FATF periodically identifies jurisdictions with weak measures to combat money
laundering and terrorist financing (AML/CFT) in its following publications:
(a) High-Risk Jurisdictions subject to a Call for Action, and
(b) Jurisdictions under Increased Monitoring. A jurisdiction, whose name does not
appear in the 2 aforementioned lists, shall be referred to as a FATF compliant
jurisdiction.
(2) Potential voting power could arise from instruments that are convertible into equity,
other instruments with contingent voting rights, contractual arrangements, etc. that
grant investors voting rights (including contingent voting rights) in the future. In such
cases, it should be ensured that new investments from FATF non-compliant
jurisdictions are less than both (i) 20 percent of the existing voting powers and (ii)
20 percent of existing and potential voting powers assuming those potential voting
rights have materialised.
(3) Existing investors in ARCs as on February 12, 2021 holding their investments prior
to the classification of the source or intermediate jurisdiction/s as FATF non-
compliant may continue with the investments or bring in additional investments as
per extant regulations so as to support continuity of business in India.
37

C. Fair Practices Code (FPC)
127. In order to achieve the highest standards of transparency and fairness in dealing
with stakeholders, an ARC shall put in place a Board-approved FPC.
128. The FPC must be followed in letter & spirit and its implementation needs to be
monitored by the Board.
129. The following paragraphs provide the minimum regulatory expectation while each
ARC’s Board is free to enhance its scope and coverage:
(1) The ARC shall follow transparent and non-discriminatory practices in acquisition of
assets. It shall maintain arm’s length distance in the pursuit of transparency.
(2) In order to enhance transparency in the process of sale of secured assets,
(i) invitation for participation in auction shall be publicly solicited; the process
should enable participation of as many prospective buyers as possible;
(ii) terms and conditions of such sale may be decided in wider consultation
with investors in the SRs as per the Act; and
(iii) the ARC shall ensure compliance with Section 29A of the IBC in dealing with
the prospective buyers.
Explanation: Section 29A of the IBC includes in its purview such persons or
any other person acting jointly or in concert with such persons who are
considered ineligible to submit a resolution plan viz.,
(a) undischarged insolvents,
(b) wilful defaulters,
(c) persons managing/ controlling accounts classified as NPA for more than
one year,
(d) persons convicted for any offence punishable with imprisonment for two
years or more,
(e) disqualified directors under Companies Act,
(f) persons prohibited from trading in securities by SEBI,
(g) persons against whom order has been made by the adjudicating authority
for preferential/ undervalued/ extortionate credit/ fraudulent transactions,
38

(h) guarantors to a corporate debtor against which an application for
insolvency resolution has been admitted under IBC,
(i) persons subjected to the above listed disabilities under any law in a
jurisdiction outside India, and
(j) connected persons to ineligible persons mentioned under Section 29A.
(3) An ARC shall release all securities on repayment of dues or on realisation of the
outstanding amount of loan, subject to any legitimate right or lien for any other claim
they may have against the borrower. If such right of set off is to be exercised, the
borrower shall be given notice about the same with full particulars about the remaining
claims and the conditions under which the ARCs are entitled to retain the securities
till the relevant claim is settled / paid.
(4) An ARC shall put in place a Board-approved policy on the management fee,
expenses and incentives, if any, claimed from trusts under their management. The
Board- approved policy shall be transparent and ensure that management fee is
reasonable and proportionate to the financial transactions.
(5) Any management fee / incentives charged towards the asset reconstruction or
securitisation activity shall come only from the recovery effected from the underlying
financial assets. The Board-approved policy shall indicate the quantitative cap / limit
on the management fee / incentives under various scenarios, any deviation from
which shall require approval of the Board.
(6) An ARC intending to outsource any of their activity shall put in place a
comprehensive Board-approved outsourcing policy which incorporates, inter alia,
criteria for selection of such activities as well as service providers, delegation of
authority depending on risks and materiality and systems to monitor and review the
operations of these activities / service providers. An ARC shall ensure that
outsourcing arrangements neither diminish its ability to fulfil their obligations to
customers and the Reserve Bank nor impede effective supervision by the Reserve
Bank. The information about outsourced agency, if owned / controlled by a director
of the ARC, shall be disclosed by the ARC under the disclosures provided in
paragraph 150 of these Directions.
39

(7) In the matter of recovery of loans, an ARC shall not resort to harassment of the
debtor. An ARC shall ensure that the staff are adequately trained to deal with
customers in an appropriate manner.
(i) An ARC shall put in place a Board-approved code of conduct for recovery
agents and obtain their undertaking to abide by that code. An ARC, as
principal, is responsible for the actions of its recovery agents.
(ii) It is essential that the recovery agents observe strict customer confidentiality.
(iii) An ARC shall ensure that recovery agents are properly trained to handle their
responsibilities with care and sensitivity, particularly in respect of aspects such
as hours of calling, privacy of customer information, etc. It shall ensure that
recovery agents do not induce adoption of uncivilized, unlawful and
questionable behaviour or recovery process.
(iv) An ARC shall ensure that it or its agents does not resort to intimidation or
harassment of any kind, either verbal or physical, against any person in their
debt collection efforts, including acts intended to humiliate publicly or intrude
upon the privacy of the debtors' family members, referees and friends, sending
inappropriate messages either on mobile or through social media, making
threatening and/ or anonymous calls, persistently / repeatedly calling the
borrower and/ or calling the borrower before 8:00 a.m. and after 7:00 p.m. for
recovery of overdue loans, making false and misleading representations, etc.
(8) An ARC shall constitute a grievance redressal machinery within the organisation.
The name and contact number of designated grievance redressal officer of the ARC
shall be mentioned in the communication with the borrowers. The designated officer
shall ensure that genuine grievances are redressed promptly. The ARC’s grievance
redressal machinery shall also deal with the issues relating to services provided by
the outsourced agency and recovery agents, if any.
(9) An ARC shall keep the information, it comes to acquire in course of its business,
strictly confidential and shall not disclose the same to anyone including other
companies in the group except when,
40

(i) required by law;
(ii) there is duty towards public to reveal information; or
(iii) there is borrower’s permission.
(10) Compliance with FPC shall be subject to periodic review by the Board.
130. The FPC shall be placed in public domain for information of all stakeholders.
131. An ARC shall adhere to the following guidelines on ‘Responsible Lending Conduct
–Release of Movable / Immovable Property Documents on Repayment/ Settlement of
Personal Loans’:
(1) Release of Movable / Immovable Property Documents
(i) The ARC shall release all the original movable / immovable property
documents and remove charges registered with any registry within a period of
30 days after full repayment/ settlement of the loan account.
(ii) The borrower shall be given the option of collecting the original movable /
immovable property documents either from the banking outlet / branch where
the loan account was serviced or any other office of the ARC where the
documents are available, as per her / his preference.
(iii) The timeline and place of return of original movable / immovable property
documents will be mentioned in the loan sanction letters issued on or after the
effective date.
(iv) In order to address the contingent event of demise of the sole borrower or joint
borrowers, the ARC shall have a well laid out procedure for return of original
movable / immovable property documents to the legal heirs. Such procedure
shall be displayed on the website of the ARC along with other similar policies
and procedures for customer information.
(2) Compensation for delay in release of Movable / Immovable Property Documents
(i) In case of delay in releasing of original movable / immovable property documents or
failing to file charge satisfaction form with relevant registry beyond 30 days after full
repayment / settlement of loan, the ARC shall communicate to the borrower reasons
41

for such delay. In case where the delay is attributable to the ARC, it shall
compensate the borrower at the rate of ₹5,000/- for each day of delay.
(ii) In case of loss / damage to original movable / immovable property documents, either
in part or in full, the ARC shall assist the borrower in obtaining duplicate / certified
copies of the movable / immovable property documents and shall bear the
associated costs, in addition to paying compensation as indicated at sub-paragraph
(i) above. However, in such cases, an additional time of 30 days will be available to
the ARC to complete this procedure and the delayed period penalty will be
calculated thereafter (i.e., after a total period of 60 days).
(iii) The compensation provided under these directions shall be without prejudice to the
rights of a borrower to get any other compensation as per any applicable law.
42

Chapter-VI Accounting and Disclosures
A. Guidelines related to accounting
132. An ARC shall prepare its balance sheet and profit and loss account as on 31st March
every year.
133. An ARC shall classify all the liabilities due within one year as ‘current liabilities’ and
assets maturing within one year along with cash and bank balances as ‘current assets’ in
its balance sheet.
134. The accounting policies adopted in preparation and presentation of the financial
statements shall be in conformity with the applicable prudential norms prescribed by the
Reserve Bank.
135. Where any of the accounting policies is not in conformity with these guidelines /
instructions, the particulars of departures shall be disclosed together with the reasons
therefor and the financial impact on account thereof. Where such an effect is not
ascertainable, the fact shall be so disclosed citing the reasons therefor.
136. An inappropriate treatment of an item in balance sheet or profit and loss account
cannot be deemed to have been rectified either by disclosure of accounting policies used
or by disclosure in notes to balance sheet and profit and loss account.
137. An ARC covered by Rule 4 of the Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules,
2015 shall comply with Indian Accounting Standards (Ind AS) for the preparation of its
financial statements. The responsibility of preparing and ensuring fair presentation of the
financial statements of an ARC vest primarily with its Board of Directors. The Reserve
Bank, expects a high quality implementation of Ind AS which will require detailed analysis,
application of judgment and detailed documentation to support judgments. In order to
promote a high quality and consistent implementation as well as facilitate comparison and
better supervision, ARCs shall follow the regulatory guidelines issued by Reserve Bank
in the following sub-paragraphs. These guidelines focus on the need to ensure
consistency in the application of the accounting standards in specific areas, including
43

asset classification and provisioning, and provide clarifications on regulatory capital in the
light of Ind AS implementation.
(1) Governance Framework
(i) In view of the criticality of the nature of the business model in determining the
classification of financial assets and restrictions on subsequent
reclassification, an ARC is advised to put in place Board approved policies that
clearly articulate and document their business models and portfolios. ARC
shall also articulate the objectives for managing each portfolio.
(ii) An ARC shall frame its policy for sales out of amortised cost business model
portfolios and disclose the same in its notes to financial statements.
(iii) The Reserve Bank expects the Board of Directors to approve sound
methodologies for computation of Expected Credit Losses (ECL) that address
policies, procedures and controls for assessing and measuring credit risk on
all lending exposures, commensurate with the size, complexity and risk profile
specific to the ARC. The parameters and assumptions considered as well as
their sensitivity to the ECL output should be documented. ARC is advised to
not make changes in the parameters, assumptions and other aspects of its
ECL model for the purposes of profit smoothening. The rationale and
justification for any change in the ECL model should be documented and
approved by the Board. Similarly, any adjustments to the model output (i.e. a
management overlay) should be approved by the Audit Committee of the
Board (ACB) and its rationale and basis should be clearly documented.
Note: NBFCs / ARCs may draw reference to Guidance on Credit Risk and
Accounting for Expected Credit Losses issued by Basel Committee on Banking
Supervision (BCBS) in December 2015, which is structured around 11
principles out of which first eight principles deal with supervisory guidance and
inter-alia cover Board/Senior Management’s responsibilities, adoption of
sound methodologies for credit risk measurement, disclosure requirements
etc.
(iv) Ind AS 109 does not explicitly define default but requires entities to define
44

default in a manner consistent with that used for internal credit risk
management. It is recommended that the definition of default adopted for
accounting purposes is guided by the definition used for regulatory purposes.
The ACB should approve the classification of accounts that are past due
beyond 90 days but not treated as impaired, with the rationale for the same
clearly documented. Further, the number of such accounts and the total
amount outstanding and the overdue amounts should be disclosed in the notes
to the financial statements.
Note - Paragraph B5.5.37 of Ind AS 109 states that ‘…an entity shall apply a
default definition that is consistent with the definition used for internal credit
risk management purposes for the relevant financial instrument and consider
qualitative indicators (for example, financial covenants) when appropriate.
However, there is a rebuttable presumption that default does not occur later
than when a financial asset is 90 days past due unless an entity has
reasonable and supportable information to demonstrate that a more lagging
default criterion is more appropriate. The definition of default used for these
purposes shall be applied consistently to all financial instruments unless
information becomes available that demonstrates that another default
definition is more appropriate for a particular financial instrument.’
(v) Regardless of the way in which ARC assesses significant increase in credit
risk, there is a rebuttable presumption under Ind AS 109 that the credit risk on
a financial asset has increased significantly since initial recognition when
contractual payments are more than 30 days past due. Ind AS 109 also permits
that an ARC can rebut this presumption if it has reasonable and supportable
information that demonstrates that the credit risk has not increased
significantly since initial recognition even though the contractual payments are
more than 30 days past due. ARC should educate its customers on the need
to make payments in a timely manner. However, in limited circumstances,
where an ARC does rebut the presumption, it should be done only with clear
documentation of the justification for doing so. All such cases shall be placed
before the ACB. ARC shall not defer the recognition of significant increase in
45

credit risk for any exposure that is overdue beyond 60 days.
(2) Prudential Floor for ECL
(i) ARC shall hold impairment allowances as required by Ind AS. In parallel ARC
shall also maintain the asset classification and compute provisions as per
extant prudential norms on Income Recognition, Asset Classification and
Provisioning (IRACP) including borrower/beneficiary wise classification,
provisioning for standard as well as restructured assets, NPA ageing, etc. A
comparison (as per the template in Annex VI) between provisions required
under IRACP and impairment allowances made under Ind AS 109 should be
disclosed by ARC in the notes to its financial statements to provide a
benchmark to its Board, RBI supervisors and other stakeholders, on the
adequacy of provisioning for credit losses.
(ii) Where impairment allowance under Ind AS 109 is lower than the provisioning
required under IRACP (including standard asset provisioning), ARC shall
appropriate the difference from its net profit or loss after tax to a separate
‘Impairment Reserve’. The balance in the ‘Impairment Reserve’ shall not be
reckoned for regulatory capital. Further, no withdrawals shall be permitted from
this reserve without prior permission from the Department of Supervision, RBI.
(iii) The requirement for ‘Impairment Reserve’ shall be reviewed, going forward.
(3) Computation of Regulatory Capital and Regulatory Ratios
In determining ‘owned funds’, ‘net owned funds’ and ‘regulatory capital’, ARC shall be
guided by the following:
(i) Any net unrealised gains arising on fair valuation of financial instruments,
including such gains arising on transition to Ind AS, should not be included in
owned funds whereas all such net losses should be considered. In determining
the net unrealised gains for reduction from owned funds, NBFCs should
categorise financial assets measured at fair value into two categories viz.
(a) Investments in shares of other NBFCs and in shares, debentures,
bonds, etc. in Group companies that are required to be reduced while
46

determining Tier 1 Capital as defined in the Reserve Bank of India (Non-
Banking Financial Companies – Prudential Norms on Capital Adequacy)
Directions, 2025; and
(b) Others
While netting may be done within the aforementioned categories, net gains
from one category should not be offset against losses in the other category.
The unrealised gain/loss on a derivative transaction undertaken for hedging
may be offset against the unrealised loss/gain recognized in the capital (either
through Profit or Loss or through Other Comprehensive Income) on the
corresponding underlying hedged instrument. If after such offset and netting
with unrealised gains/losses on other financial instruments, there are still net
unrealised gains, the same should be excluded from regulatory capital.
Unrealised gains / losses shall be considered net of the effect of taxation.
(ii) Any unrealised gains or losses recognised in equity due to (a) own credit risk
and (b) cash flow hedge reserve shall be derecognised while determining
owned funds.
(iii) Since unrealised gains on category A have been excluded in computation of
owned fund, NBFCs shall reduce the lower of acquisition cost or fair value of
investments / advances in subsidiaries / other group companies and other
NBFCs while determining Tier 1 capital as specified in paragraph 10 of the
aforementioned Master Directions. Net unrealised gains on Category B (i.e.
‘Others’) to the extent they have been excluded in regulatory capital, shall also
be reduced from risk weighted assets.
(iv) ARC shall apply the guidelines specified in sub-paragraph (i) to (iii)
above mutatis mutandis while determining net owned funds.
(v) Where ARC uses fair value as deemed cost at the date of transition with
respect to Property, Plant and Equipment (PPE) in terms of Ind AS 101, and
the difference between the deemed cost and the current carrying cost is
adjusted directly in retained earnings, any fair value gains upon such transition
shall be reckoned as net owned funds for ARC at a discount of 55 percent.
47

(vi) 12 month expected credit loss (ECL) allowances for financial instruments i.e.
46 where the credit risk has not increased significantly since initial recognition,
shall be included under general provisions and loss reserves in Tier 2 capital
within the limits specified by extant regulations. Lifetime ECL shall not be
reckoned for regulatory capital (numerator) while it shall be reduced from the
risk weighted assets.
(vii) Securitised assets not qualifying for de-recognition under Ind AS due to credit
enhancement given by the originating NBFC on such assets shall be risk
weighted at zero percent. However, the NBFC shall reduce 50 per cent of the
amount of credit enhancement given from Tier 1 capital and the balance from
Tier 2 capital.
(4) Regulatory ratios, limits and disclosures shall be based on Ind AS figures. Impaired
assets and restructured assets shall be considered as non-performing assets (NPA) for
calculation of NPA ratios.
B. Investments
138. Considering the nature of investment in SRs where underlying cash flows are
dependent on realisation from NPAs, it can be classified as available for sale. Hence,
investments in SRs may be aggregated for the purpose of arriving at net depreciation /
appreciation of investments under the category. Net depreciation, if any, shall be provided
for. Net appreciation, if any, shall be ignored.
139. All other investments shall be valued at lower of cost or realisable value. Where
market rates are available, the market value shall be presumed to be the realisable value
and in cases, where market rates are not available, the realisable value shall be the fair
value. However, investments in other ARCs shall be treated as long term investments and
valued in accordance with the applicable accounting standards.
C. Income recognition
140. Yield on SRs shall be recognised only after the full redemption of the entire principal
amount of SRs.
141. Upside income shall be recognized only after full redemption of SRs.
48

142. Management fees shall be calculated and charged as a percentage of the NAV
calculated at the lower end of the range of the recovery rating specified by the CRA,
provided that the same is not more than the acquisition value of the underlying asset.
However, management fees are to be reckoned as a percentage of the actual outstanding
value of SRs, before the availability of NAV of SRs.
143. Management fees may be recognized on accrual basis. Management fees
recognized during the planning period must be realized within 180 days from the date of
expiry of the planning period. Management fees recognized after the planning period shall
be realized within 180 days from the date of recognition. Unrealised management fees
shall be reversed thereafter. Further, any unrealized management fees shall be reversed
if, before the prescribed time for realisation, NAV of the SRs fall below 50 percent of face
value.
144. An ARC preparing its financial statements as per Ind AS, shall reduce the following
amounts from its NOF while calculating the capital adequacy ratio and the amount
available for payment of dividend:
(1) Management fee recognised during the planning period that remains unrealised
beyond 180 days from the date of expiry of the planning period.
(2) Management fee recognised after the expiry of the planning period that remains
unrealised beyond 180 days of such recognition.
(3) Any unrealised management fee, notwithstanding the period for which it has
remained unrealised, where the NAV of the SRs has fallen below 50 percent of the
face value.
145. The amount reduced from NOF and amount available for payment of dividend shall
be net of any specific expected credit loss allowances held on unrealised management
fee referred to in paragraph 144 above and the tax implications thereon, if any.
146. The Audit Committee of the Board shall review the extent of unrealised management
fee and satisfy itself on the recoverability of the same while finalising the financial
statements. It shall be ensured that the management fee is computed strictly in
accordance with extant regulations.
49

147. The income recognition on all other items shall be based on recognised accounting
principles.
148. Interest and any other charges in respect of all the NPAs shall be recognised only
when they are actually realised. Any unrealised income recognised by an ARC before the
asset became non-performing and remaining unrealised, shall be derecognised.
149. Expenses incurred at pre-acquisition stage for performing due diligence etc. for
acquiring financial assets from banks / financial institutions shall be expensed
immediately by recognizing the same in the statement of profit and loss for the period in
which such expenses are incurred. Expenses incurred at post-acquisition stage for
formation of the trusts, stamp duty, registration, etc. and which are recoverable from the
trusts, shall be reversed, if these expenses are not realised within 180 days from the
planning period or downgrading of SRs, i.e., NAV is less than 50 percent of the face value
of SRs, whichever is earlier.
D. Disclosures in the balance sheet
150. An ARC shall, in addition to the requirements of Schedule III of the Companies Act,
2013, prepare the following schedules and annex them to its balance sheet:
(1) The names and addresses of the banks/ financial institutions from whom financial
assets were acquired and the value at which such assets were acquired from each
such bank/ financial institution.
(2) Segregation of various financial assets industry-wise and sponsor-wise (to be
indicated as a percentage of the total assets).
(3) Details of related parties as per the accounting standards and the amounts due to and
from them.
(4) A statement clearly charting therein the migration of financial assets from standard to
non-performing.
(5) Value of financial assets acquired during the financial year either on its own books or
in the books of the trust.
(6) Value of financial assets realized during the financial year.
50

(7) Value of financial assets outstanding for realisation as at the end of the financial year.
(8) Value of SRs redeemed partially and the SRs redeemed fully during the financial year.
(9) Value of SRs pending for redemption as at the end of the financial year.
(10) Value of SRs which could not be redeemed as a result of non-realisation of the
financial asset as per the policy formulated by the ARC under paragraph 36.
(11) Value of land and / or building acquired in ordinary course of business of
reconstruction of assets (year wise).
(12) The basis of valuation of assets if the acquisition value of the assets is more than
the book value of the transferors.
(13) The details of the assets disposed of (either by write off or by realisation) during the
year at a discount of more than 20 percent of valuation as on the previous year end
and the reasons therefor.
(14) The details of the assets where the value of the SRs has declined more than 20
percent below the acquisition value.
(15) Information about outsourced agency, if owned/ controlled by a director of the ARC.
(16) Information about assets acquired under IBC including the type and value of assets
acquired, the sector-wise distribution based on business of the corporate debtor.
(17) Implementation status of the resolution plans approved by the Adjudicating Authority
on a quarterly basis.
(18) Information on the ageing of the unrealised management fee recognised in their
books in the format specified below as part of the Notes to Accounts in the annual
financial statements (applicable only to ARCs preparing their financial statements
as per Ind AS):
As at the
As at the
Sr. end of
Parameters end of
No. previous
current year
year
51

A. Outstanding amount of unrealised
management fee
Out of the above, amount outstanding for:
B. (a) Amounts where the net asset value of
the security receipts has fallen below 50
percent of the face value
C. (b) Other amounts unrealised for:
(i) More than 180 days but up to 1 year
(ii) More than 1 year but up to 3 years
(iii) More than 3 years
D. Allowances held for unrealised
management fee (on B and C)
E. Net unrealised management fee (B+C-D)
E. Submission of returns
151. An ARC shall follow the instructions on submission of returns contained in Master
Direction – Reserve Bank of India (Filing of Supervisory Returns) Directions – 2024 as
amended from time to time.
F. Submission of audited balance sheet
152. An ARC shall furnish a copy of its audited balance sheet along with the Directors'
Report / Auditors' Report every year within one month from the date of Annual General
Body Meeting, in which the audited accounts are adopted, to the Regional Office of the
Department of Supervision of the Reserve Bank under whose jurisdiction it is registered.
G. Reporting of cases involving change in or takeover of the management of the
business of the borrower
153. The ARC shall report all cases, where it has taken action to cause change in or
takeover of the management of the business of the borrower for realisation of its dues
from the borrower to the Department of Supervision of the Reserve Bank.
52

H. Display of information - secured assets possessed under the SARFAESI Act,
2002
154. An ARC shall display information, updated on a monthly basis, in respect of the
borrowers whose secured assets have been taken into possession by it under the Act.
The ARC shall upload this information on its website in the format given below.
Information on secured assets possessed under the SARFAESI Act, 2002
Regist
ered Name
Guara Regist addre of the
Detail
ntor ered ss of Outsta title
S Bra Date of s of
Borro name addre the nding Asset holder
l. nch St asset securi
wer (wher ss of guara amoun classifi of the
N nam ate classifi ty
name ever the ntor t cation securi
o e cation posse
applic borro (wher (in ₹) ty
ssed
able) wer ever posse
applic ssed
able)
53

Chapter-VII Miscellaneous Instructions
A. Internal audit
155. An ARC shall put in place an effective internal control system providing for periodical
checks and review of the asset acquisition procedures and asset reconstruction
measures followed by it and matters related thereto.
B. Guidelines regarding Credit Information Companies
156. An ARC shall follow guidelines prescribed under Reserve Bank of India (Asset
Reconstruction Companies - Treatment of Wilful Defaulters and Large Defaulters)
Directions, 2025, as amended from time to time.
157. An ARC shall follow the guidelines issued vide Reserve Bank of India (Asset
Reconstruction Companies – Credit Information Reporting) Directions, 2025, as amended
from time to time.
C. Filing of transactions with the Central Registry set up under the Act
158. An ARC shall file and register the records of all transactions related to securitisation,
reconstruction of financial assets and creation of security interest, if any, with Central
Registry of Securitisation Asset Reconstruction and Security Interest of India (Central
Registry).
D. Submission of financial information to Information Utilities
159. According to Section 215 of Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code (IBC), 2016, a financial
creditor shall submit financial information and information relating to assets in relation to
which any security interest has been created, to an information utility (IU) in such form
and manner as may be specified by regulations.
160. Chapter V of the Insolvency and Bankruptcy Board of India (Information Utilities)
Regulations, 2017, has specified the form and manner in which financial creditors are to
submit this information to IUs.
161. As per Section 238 of the IBC, 2016 the provisions of the Code shall have effect,
notwithstanding anything inconsistent therewith contained in any other law for the time
being in force or any instrument having effect by virtue of any such law.
54

162. An ARC shall adhere to the relevant provisions of IBC, 2016 and IBBI (IUs)
Regulations, 2017 and immediately put in place appropriate systems and procedures to
ensure compliance to the provisions of the Code and Regulations.
E. Know Your Customer (KYC)
163. An ARC shall follow the Reserve Bank of India (Asset Reconstruction Companies –
Know Your Customer) Directions, 2025, as amended from time to time.
F. Reporting to Indian Banks’ Association (IBA):
164. An ARC shall report to IBA the details of chartered accountants, advocates and
valuers (who have committed serious irregularities in the course of rendering their
professional services) for including in the IBA database of third-party entities involved in
fraud.
165. An ARC shall have to ensure that it follows meticulously the procedural guidelines
issued by IBA (Circular No. RB-II/Fr./Gen/3/1331 dated August 27, 2009) and also give
the parties a fair opportunity to explain their position and justify their action before
reporting to IBA.
166. If no reply/ satisfactory clarification is received from them within one month, the ARC
shall report their details to IBA. An ARC should consider this aspect before assigning any
work to such parties in future.
55

Chapter-VIII Repeal and Other Provisions
A. Repeal and saving
167. With the issue of these Directions, the existing Directions, instructions, and
guidelines relating to ARCs stand repealed, as communicated vide circular
DOR.RRC.REC.302/33-01-010/2025-26 dated November 28, 2025. The Directions,
instructions, and guidelines repealed prior to the issuance of these Directions shall
continue to remain repealed.
168. Notwithstanding such repeal, any action taken or purported to have been taken, or
initiated under the repealed Directions, instructions, or guidelines shall continue to be
governed by the provisions thereof. All approvals or acknowledgments granted under
these repealed lists shall be deemed as governed by these Directions. Further, the repeal
of these directions, instructions, or guidelines shall not in any way prejudicially affect:
a. any right, obligation or liability acquired, accrued, or incurred thereunder;
b. any penalty, forfeiture, or punishment incurred in respect of any contravention
committed thereunder;
c. any investigation, legal proceeding, or remedy in respect of any such right, privilege,
obligation, liability, penalty, forfeiture, or punishment as aforesaid; and any such
investigation, legal proceedings or remedy may be instituted, continued, or enforced and
any such penalty, forfeiture or punishment may be imposed as if those directions,
instructions, or guidelines had not been repealed.
B. Application of other laws not barred
169. The provisions of these Directions shall be in addition to, and not in derogation of
the provisions of any other laws, rules, regulations, or directions, for the time being in
force.
C. Interpretations
170. For the purpose of giving effect to the provisions of these Directions or in order to
remove any difficulties in the application or interpretation of the provisions of these
Directions, the RBI may, if it considers necessary, issue necessary clarifications in respect
56

of any matter covered herein and the interpretation of any provision of these Directions
given by the RBI shall be final and binding.
D. Penal consequences for non-compliance
171. Implementation of these Directions shall be reviewed under the supervisory process
and any non-compliance in this regard shall be dealt with appropriately in accordance
with the provisions of the Act.
(J P Sharma)
Chief General Manager
57

Annex I
Para 103
Declaration and undertaking by Director/ MD/ CEO as on ………
Name:
1. Relevant relationships of Director/ MD/ CEO
(i) List of relatives, if any, who are connected with the ARC (please refer to sub-
section 77 of Section 2 of the Companies Act, 2013).
(ii) List of entities, if any, in which he/ she is considered as being interested (please
refer to sub-section 49 of Section 2 and Section 184 of the Companies Act, 2013).
(iii) List of entities in which he/ she is considered as holding substantial interest
(substantial interest means the beneficial interest held by an individual or any of his/ her
relatives, whether singly or taken together, in the shares of a company/ firm, the
aggregate amount paid-up on which exceeds 10% of the paid-up share capital/ capital of
the company/ firm).
(iv) Name of the financial institutions including NBFCs/ ARCs in which he/ she is or
has been a member of the Board (also give details of period during which such office was
held).
(v) Fund and non-fund facilities, if any, presently availed of by him/ her and/ or by
entities listed at 1(ii) and (iii) above from the financial institutions including NBFCs/ ARCs.
(vi) Cases, if any, where the director or entities at 1(ii) and (iii) above are in default or
have been in default in the past in respect of credit facilities obtained from financial
institutions including NBFCs/ ARCs.
2. Records of professional achievements
Relevant professional achievements.
3. Proceedings, if any, against the Director/ MD/ CEO
(i) Whether the director is a member of a professional association/ body? Details of
disciplinary action, if any, pending or commenced or resulting in conviction in the past
against him/ her or whether he/ she has been banned from entry into any profession/
occupation at any time.
(ii) Details of prosecution, if any, pending or commenced or resulting in conviction in
58

the past against the director and/ or against any of the entities listed at 1(ii) and (iii) above
for violation of economic laws and regulations.
(iii) Details of criminal prosecution, if any, pending or commenced or resulting in
conviction in the last five years against the director.
(iv) Whether the director attracts any of the disqualifications envisaged under the
Section 164 of the Companies Act, 2013? If so, details thereof.
(v) Has the director or any of the entities at 1(ii) and 1(iii) above been subject to any
investigation at the instance of any Government department or agency? If so, details
thereof.
(vi) Has the director at any time been found guilty of violation of rules/ regulations/
legislative requirements by customs/ excise/ income tax/ foreign exchange/ other revenue
authorities? If so, details thereof.
(vii) Whether the director has at any time come to the adverse notice of a regulator
such as RBI, SEBI, IRDA, MCA, etc.?
(viii) Whether the director has been declared as a wilful defaulter at any time in the
preceding five years?
(ix) Whether the director is continuing as a wilful defaulter?
4. Any other explanation/ information considered relevant for judging the
Director/ MD/ CEO, fit and proper
Undertaking
I confirm that the above information is, to the best of my knowledge and belief, true and
complete. I undertake to keep the Board of the ARC fully informed, as soon as possible,
of all events which take place subsequent to my appointment which are relevant to the
information provided above.
*I also undertake to execute the ‘Deed of Covenant’ required to be executed by the
directors of the ARC.
Place: Signature:
Date: Name:
* Applicable only for directors
59

Remarks of Nomination and Remuneration Committee (NRC) of having satisfied
itself that the above information is true and complete.
Place: Signature of the Chair of the NRC:
Date: Name:
60

Annex II
Para 105
Information About the Director / MD / CEO
Name of ARC:
Sr.
Particulars Information/ details
No.
1. Name of the candidate (proposed appointee)
2. Proposed designation/ Type of directorship [Such as
Whole-time Director/ Managing Director/ Chief Executive
Officer/ Non-executive Director (sponsor/non- sponsor),
Independent Director, Nominee Director, etc.
(to be clearly specified)]
3. Nationality & Passport No.
4. Date of Birth (DD/MM/YYYY)
5. Address, e-mail ID and phone/mobile number
6. Permanent Account Number (PAN) PAN:
Date of filing Amount of tax paid (₹)
Details of income tax returns filed during the last 3 years
7. Director Identification Number (DIN) and current
status thereof
8. Educational/ Professional qualifications
9. Line of Business or Vocation/ Profession
(A brief write-up detailing the relevant knowledge and
professional experience of the candidate)
10. Details of bank accounts of the candidate across all
jurisdictions Bank Type of A/c A/c Number
(Please mention details of all accounts such as savings, Name
current, loans and advances, etc.)
11. Equity shareholding2, if any, of the candidate in the
applicant ARC:
(i) Number of shares
(ii) Face value of shares
(iii) Percentage to total paid-up share capital of the
ARC
2 Please also include details of preference shares, compulsorily convertible debentures, etc., if any, separately.
61

12. Whether the candidate is a nominee of or
related/associated with any of the sponsor/s? If yes,
details thereof.
13. List of relatives3 of the candidate, who are connected
with the ARC (if any), and nature of such connection
14. Present and past4 occupations (other than those covered
at Sr. No. 15)
[Designation/Role, Name and address of the organisation,
Employee ID, Tenure (from-to), Name of the regulator (if
regulated by a financial sector regulator in India or abroad)]
15. Names of banks, financial institutions (including NBFCs/
ARCs) and other entities in which the candidate has been
chairman / managing director / director / chief executive
officer, etc.
[Name and address of the organisation and its line of activity,
Position held, Tenure (from-to), Name of the regulator (if
regulated by a financial sector regulator in India or abroad)]
16. List of entities in which the candidate is considered as
interested5 or holding substantial interest6
and its regulator
17. Whether the candidate or the entities listed at (15) and (16)
above are or have in the past been in default7 in respect of
any credit facilities (fund/ non-fund-based) obtained from
banks/ financial institutions
[If yes, please furnish full details such as name of the lender (including
the branch name), type of facility, period and quantum of default, etc.
and present status thereof]
18. Whether the person is a member of any professional
association/ body.
If yes, details of disciplinary action against him/ her, if any,
commenced, pending or resulting in conviction in the past,
or whether he/ she has been banned from any profession/
occupation at any time.
3 Refer to Section 2(77) of the Companies Act, 2013
4 At least during the last 10 years
5 Refer to Section 184 of the Companies Act, 2013.
6 Substantial interest means the beneficial interest held by an individual or his/her spouse or minor child, whether singly
or taken together, in the shares of a company/ capital of a firm, the aggregate amount paid-up on which exceeds ten
percent of the paid-up share capital of the company or total capital subscribed by all the partners of a partnership firm.
7 ‘Default’ means that the concerned facility has/had been classified as a non-performing asset by the bank/FI.
62

19. Details of civil or criminal prosecution (including under
Section 138 (1) of the Negotiable Instruments Act,
1881), if any, against the candidate and/ or against any
of the entities listed in (15) and (16) above initiated, pending
or resulting in conviction in the past for violation of economic
laws/ regulations.
20. If the candidate has indulged in any breach of AML/CFT
guidelines at any time, details thereof.
21. Whether the candidate attracts any of the disqualification
envisaged under the Section 164 of the Companies Act,
2013?
If yes, please give details thereof.
22. (a) If convicted by a criminal court of an offence involving
moral turpitude, details thereof.
(b) If convicted by any other court of law, details thereof
along with outcome of such proceedings.
23. If the candidate or any of the entities listed at (15) and (16)
above has been subject to any investigation or vigilance/
disciplinary enquiry by any of the previous employers or
government departments or agencies, details thereof along
with outcome of such proceedings.
24. If the candidate or the entities listed at (15) and (16) above
have at any time been found guilty of violation of rules/
legislative requirements by customs/ excise/ income tax/
foreign exchange/ other revenue authorities/ investigative
agencies (including issuance of show cause notice),
details thereof.
25. If reprimanded, censured, restricted, suspended, barred,
enjoined, or otherwise sanctioned by any regulator such as
RBI, SEBI, IRDAI, PFRDA, MCA, professional
organisations, government agencies or court because of
professional conduct or activities, the details thereof8.
8 Though it shall not be necessary for a candidate to mention herein about the orders and findings which have been
later on reversed/ set aside in toto, it would be necessary to make a mention of the same in case the reversal / setting
aside is on technical reasons like limitation or lack of jurisdiction, and not on merit. If the order is temporarily stayed and
the appeal proceedings are pending, the same should also be mentioned.
63

26. If the candidate is a professional (such as a chartered
accountant, an advocate, etc.) and is undertaking or has
undertaken professional work in any ARC, please provide
the details (including the name of the ARC and the period
of association)
27. Whether the candidate has been declared a wilful defaulter
at any time in the last five years by any bank. If yes, details
and present status thereof.
28. Whether the number of directorship held by the candidate
exceeds the limits prescribed under Section 165 of the
Companies Act, 2013/SEBI’s (Listing Obligations and
Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015 (as
applicable).
29. Any other information considered relevant for assessing
the person as ‘fit and proper’.
Declaration by the proposed appointee
1. I confirm that I am not associated with any unincorporated body which is accepting public deposits.
2. I confirm that I am not associated with any company, the application for Certificate of Registration
(CoR) of which has been rejected by the Reserve Bank of India, National Housing Bank or any other
financial sector regulator.
Undertaking by the proposed appointee
1. I confirm that the above information is, to the best of my knowledge and belief, true and complete.
2. I undertake to keep the Company fully informed, as soon as possible, of all events which take place
after submission of this application or after my appointment, which are relevant to the information provided
herein above.
3. I also undertake to execute a ‘Deed of Covenant’ with the Company.
Place:
Date: Signature of the proposed appointee
Submission of Nomination and Remuneration Committee (NRC)
Confirmation that necessary due diligence in respect of the proposed
appointee has been carried out by the NRC.
Remarks of the NRC about having satisfied itself that the information
provided herein is true and complete.
Place: Signature of Chair of the NRC
Date: Name:
Duly filled in form must be signed by the candidate (proposed appointee) and countersigned by the chairperson of the
Nomination and Remuneration Committee of the ARC.
64

Annex III
Para 105
Indicative list of documents/ information to be furnished along with the
application
Sr No. Requirements to be complied with and documents to be submitted to RBI Page No.
i. Covering Letter by the ARC submitting the application for prior approval for
appointment/ re-appointment of Director, Managing Director or CEO, duly
signed by the authorised signatory (with Company’s seal)
ii. Identity document of the candidate – PAN Card/ Election Card/ Driving
License/ Passport/ Aadhaar Card (any one)
iii. Credit Information Report (Score + Full Report) (not older than 6 months)
[Explanation for adverse remarks/features, if any, in the report should also be submitted]
iv. Banker’s Report for all accounts (both deposit and loan/advance accounts)
where the candidate is an account holder (in the bank’s sealed cover)
v. Board Resolution proposing the appointment/ re-appointment of the director/
MD/ CEO, including the proposed tenure
vi. Declaration on the status of supervisory compliances by the ARC
vii. a) Confirmation whether there has been any change in the shareholding
pattern which has led to the proposed appointment
(b) Shareholding pattern of the ARC
viii. Composition of the Board before appointment of the proposed director (with
designation, date of appointment, tenure, DIN, etc)
ix. Confirmation whether SEBI’s LODR guidelines are applicable to the ARC or
not?
65

Annex IV
Para 107
Form of deed of covenants with a Director
THIS DEED OF COVENANTS is made this day of Two thousand
BETWEEN , having its registered office at (hereinafter called
the ‘ARC’) of the one part and Mr./ Ms of (hereinafter called the
‘Director’) of the other part.
WHEREAS
A. The Director has been appointed as a director on the Board of Directors of the ARC
(hereinafter called ‘the Board’) and as a term of his/ her appointment, is required to enter
into a Deed of Covenants with the ARC.
B. The Director has agreed to enter into this Deed of Covenants pursuant to his/ her
said terms of appointment which has been approved by the Board.
NOW IT IS HEREBY AGREED AND THIS DEED OF COVENANTS WITNESSETH AS
FOLLOWS:
1. The Director acknowledges that his/ her appointment as director on the Board of
the ARC is subject to applicable laws and regulations including the Memorandum and
Articles of Association of the ARC and the provisions of this Deed of Covenants.
2. The Director covenants with the ARC that:
(i) The Director shall disclose to the Board the nature of his/ her interest, direct or
indirect, if he/ she has any interest in or is concerned with a contract or arrangement or
any proposed contract or arrangement entered into or to be entered into between the ARC
and any other person, immediately upon becoming aware of the same or at meeting of
the Board at which the question of entering into such contract or arrangement is taken
into consideration or if the director was not at the date of that meeting concerned or
interested in such proposed contract or arrangement, then at the first meeting of the
66

Board held after he/ she becomes so concerned or interested and in case of any other
contract or arrangement, the required disclosure shall be made at the first meeting of the
Board held after the Director becomes concerned or interested in the contract or
arrangement.
(ii) The Director shall disclose by general notice to the Board his/ her other
directorships, his/ her memberships of bodies corporate, his/ her interest in other entities
and his/ her interest as a partner or proprietor of firms and shall keep the Board apprised
of all changes therein.
(iii) The Director shall provide to the ARC a list of his/ her relatives as defined in the
Companies Act, 2013 and to the extent the Director is aware of directorships and interests
of such relatives in other body corporate, firms and other entities.
(iv) The Director shall in carrying on his/ her duties as director of the ARC:
a) use such degree of skill as may be reasonable to expect from a person with
his/ her knowledge or experience
b) in the performance of his/ her duties take such care as he/ she might be
reasonably expected to take on his/ her own behalf and exercise any power vested in him/
her in good faith and in the interests of the ARC
c) keep himself/ herself informed about the business, activities and financial status
of the ARC to the extent disclosed to him/ her
d) attend meetings of the Board and Committees thereof (collectively for the sake
of brevity hereinafter referred to as the ‘Board’) with fair regularity and conscientiously fulfil
his/ her obligations as director of the ARC
e) not seek to influence any decision of the Board for any consideration other than
in the interests of the ARC
f) bring independent judgment to bear on all matters affecting the ARC brought
before the Board including but not limited to statutory compliances, performance reviews,
compliances with internal control systems and procedures, key executive appointments
and standards of conduct
g) in exercise of his/ her judgement in matters brought before the Board or
entrusted to him/ her by the Board be free from any business or other relationship which
67

could materially interfere with the exercise of his/ her independent judgement
h) express his/ her views and opinions at the Board meetings without any fear
or favour and without any influence on exercise of his/ her independent judgement
(v) The Director shall have:
a) fiduciary duty to act in good faith and in the interests of the ARC and not for any
collateral purpose
b) duty to act only within the powers as laid down by the ARC’s Memorandum and
Articles of Association and by applicable laws and regulations; and
c) duty to acquire proper understanding of the business of the ARC
(vi) The Director shall:
a) not evade responsibility in regard to matters entrusted to him/ her by the Board
b) not interfere in the performance of their duties by the whole-time directors and
other officers of the ARC and wherever the director has reasons to believe otherwise, he/
she shall forthwith disclose his/ her concerns to the Board; and
c) not make improper use of information disclosed to him/ her as a member of the
Board for his/ her or someone else’s advantage or benefit and shall use the information
disclosed to him/ her by the ARC in his/ her capacity as director of the ARC only for the
purposes of performance of his/ her duties as a director and not for any other purpose
3. The ARC covenants with the Director that:
(i) the ARC shall apprise the Director about the:
a) Board procedures including identification of legal and other duties of Director
and required compliances with statutory obligations
b) control systems and procedures
c) matters in which Director should not participate because of his/ her interest,
direct or indirect therein
d) qualification requirements and provide copies of Memorandum and Articles
of Association
e) corporate policies and procedures
f) insider dealing restrictions
68

g) constitution of, delegation of authority to and terms of reference of various
committees constituted by the Board
h) appointments of Senior Executives and their authority
i) remuneration policy
j) deliberations of committees of the Board
k) changes in policies, procedures, control systems, applicable regulations
including Memorandum and Articles of Association of the ARC, delegation of authority,
Senior Executives.
(ii) the ARC shall disclose and provide to the Board including the Director all
information which is reasonably required for them to carry out their functions and duties
as a director of the ARC and to take informed decisions in respect of matters brought before
the Board for its consideration or entrusted to the Director by the Board or any committee
thereof
(iii) the disclosures to be made by the ARC to the directors shall include but not be
limited to the following:
a) all relevant information for taking informed decisions in respect of matters
brought before the Board
b) ARC’s strategic and business plans and forecasts
c) organisational structure of the ARC and delegation of authority
d) corporate and management controls and systems including procedures
e) economic features and marketing environment
f) information and updates on major expenditure
g) periodic reviews of performance of the ARC
h) periodic reports about implementation of strategic initiatives and plans
(iv) the ARC shall communicate the outcome of Board deliberations to directors and
concerned personnel and prepare and circulate minutes of meetings of the Board to
directors in a timely manner and to the extent possible within 2 business days of the date
of conclusion of the Board meeting
69

(v) advise the Director about the levels of authority delegated in matters placed before
the Board
4. The ARC shall provide to the Director periodic reports on the functioning of internal
control systems including effectiveness thereof.
5. The Director shall not assign, transfer, sublet or encumber his/ her office and his/
her rights and obligations as director of the ARC to any third party provided that nothing
herein contained shall be construed to prohibit delegation of any authority, power, function
or delegation by the Board or any committee thereof subject to applicable laws and
regulations including Memorandum and Articles of Association of the ARC.
6. The failure on the part of either party hereto to perform, discharge, observe or
comply with any obligation or duty shall not be deemed to be a waiver thereof nor shall it
operate as a bar to the performance, observance, discharge or compliance thereof at any
time or times thereafter.
7. Any and all amendments and/ or supplements and/ or alterations to this Deed of
Covenants shall be valid and effectual only if in writing and signed by the Director and the
duly authorised representative of the ARC.
8. This Deed of Covenants has been executed in duplicate and both the copies shall
be deemed to be originals.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF THE PARTIES HAVE DULY EXECUTED THIS AGREEMENT
ON THE DAY, MONTH AND YEAR FIRST ABOVE WRITTEN.
For the ARC Director
Signature: Signature:
Name: Name:
Title:
Date:
In the presence of:
1.
2
70

Annex V
Para 118
Form I: Declaration to be submitted by the sponsor
Name of the ARC:
Sl. No. Particulars Remarks
Part A
1. Name of the sponsor (including previous names, if any,
along with date of such changes)
2. Present & permanent address of the sponsor
3. Registered & corporate office address of the sponsor
4. Occupation/ nature of business of the sponsor
5. Citizenship and resident status if the sponsor is an
individual/ ownership and control status if the sponsor is an
entity (as per FEMA)
6. Date of birth / incorporation
7. CIN/ Registration No./ PAN/ TAN
8. Details of bank accounts - bank, branch and account no.
9. Profitability and average income for the last 3 years and
net worth (duly certified by the statutory auditors)
10. Source of funds for acquisition of shares/ compulsorily
convertible preference shares/ debentures/ bonds (duly
certified by the statutory auditors)
11. Income tax returns and audited financial statements of the
sponsor for the last 3 years
12. Details of directorship/ shareholding/ voting rights/
compulsorily convertible preference shares/ debentures/
bonds, etc. of the sponsor in banks and other institutions in
the financial sector
71

Sl. No. Particulars Remarks
13. Details of acquisition by the sponsor (shareholding in ₹ and
%) in the ARC
14. Whether any other person has beneficial interest in the
proposed acquisition
15. Detailed profile on the background and experience of the
sponsor, expertise and track record of business
16. Whether the sponsor is a financial sector entity/
Government/ public sector undertaking
17. Whether the sponsor has been declared as a wilful
defaulter at any time in the preceding 5 years
If yes, whether the sponsor continues to be a wilful
defaulter
Part B
18. (A) List of ‘Relatives’ of the sponsor
(B) List of ‘Persons acting in concert’ with the sponsor
(C) List of Associate Enterprises of the sponsor
(D) List of Entities which hold 10% or more of the paid-up
share capital of the sponsor
(E) List of HUFs where the Sponsor or his family member is
a member/ karta
(F) List of entities in which the HUF at (E) above is holding
10% or more of the paid-up share capital of that entity
(G) List of entities in which the Sponsor is holding 10% or
more of the paid-up share capital of that entity
(H) Entities, if any, in which the Sponsor is considered as
being interested (Refer Section 184 of Companies Act,
2013)
(I) Entities where there are common shareholders of the
sponsor who collectively hold 20% or more of the paid-up
share capital of the Sponsor and also those entities
(J) Related Party (Refer AS 18) of the Sponsor
Explanation: For the purpose of this part,
72

Sl. No. Particulars Remarks
(i) ‘Relatives’ means ‘relatives’ as defined in Section 2(77)
of the Companies Act 2013.
(ii) Persons shall be deemed to be ‘acting in concert’ who,
for a common objective or purpose of acquisition of shares
in excess of 10%, pursuant to an agreement or
understanding (formal or informal) directly or indirectly
cooperate by acquiring or agreeing to acquire shares in the
ARC;
(iii) ‘Associate enterprises of the sponsor’, means a
company whether incorporated or not, which
(a) is a holding company or a subsidiary company of
the sponsor; or
(b) is a joint venture (defined in terms of AS 23) of
the sponsor; or
(c) controls the composition of the Board of Directors
or other body governing the sponsor; or
(d) is able to obtain economic benefits from the
activities of the sponsor.
Part C
19. Has the sponsor or the persons/ entities listed in Part B
been adjudged bankrupt/insolvent at any time
20.* If the sponsor or the persons/ entities listed in Part B is a
member of a professional association/ body, details of
disciplinary action, if any, pending or commenced or
resulting in conviction in the past against him/ her or
whether he/ she has been banned from entry at any
profession/ occupation at any time
21.* Details of serious disciplinary or criminal prosecution, if any,
pending or commenced or resulting in conviction in the past
against the sponsor or the persons/ entities listed in Part B
22.* Has the sponsor or the persons/ entities listed in Part B at
any time been found guilty of violation of rules/ legislative
73

Sl. No. Particulars Remarks
requirements by customs/ excise/ income tax/ foreign
exchange/ other revenue authorities/ investigative
agencies/ economic laws/ any regulation, including
issuance of Show Cause Notice, if so, give particulars
23. Whether the sponsor or the persons/ entities listed in Part B
have been convicted for any offence due to dishonesty,
incompetence or malpractice under any legislation
designed to protect members of the public from financial
loss
24. Whether the persons/ entities listed in Part B has been
declared as a wilful defaulter at any time in the preceding 5
years? If yes, whether he/she continues as a wilful
defaulter?
Part D
25. If the sponsor is a regulated entity, names and addresses
of the regulators of the sponsor in India and abroad
26. Shareholding pattern of the sponsor
27. Details of capital raised by the sponsor during the past 3
years
28. Detailed corporate structure of the Group in case the
sponsor belongs to a Group (preferably in a pictorial form)
*Though it shall not be necessary for a person to mention in the column about
orders and findings made by regulators which have been later on reversed /
set aside in toto, however, it would be necessary to make a mention of the
same, in case the reversal / setting aside is on technical reasons like limitation
or lack of jurisdiction, etc., and not on merit. If the order of the regulator is
temporarily stayed and the appellate / court proceedings are pending, the
same also should be mentioned.
74

Undertaking
I confirm that the above information to the best of my knowledge and belief, is true and
complete. I undertake to keep the ARC fully informed, as soon as possible, of all events
which take place subsequent to submission of this declaration, which are relevant to the
information provided above.
Signature and stamp of the sponsor
Place:
Date:
I solemnly declare that to the best of my knowledge and belief the information furnished
in the statement above is correct, complete, and truly stated.
Signature of Authorised Official of the Company
Name:
Designation:
Company Seal:
Date:
Place:
PART E
Additional information to be submitted by the ARC
Sl. No. Particulars Remarks
29. Any other explanation / information in regard
to items above considered relevant for
j udging “fit and proper” status of the sponsor
30. Brief details of shareholder agreements
Signature of Authorised Official of the Company
Name:
Designation:
Company Seal:
Date:
Place:
- 75 -

Form II: Information to be furnished to the Reserve Bank by the ARC while
forwarding the application for seeking prior approval of sponsors
Sl. Particulars Remarks
No.
1. Name of the ARC
2. Paid-up share capital of the ARC
3. Name of the existing sponsors of the ARC
4. Name of the proposed sponsor
5. Proposed sponsor’s track record on integrity and reputation
6. Report of the ARC on the acquisition (based on a review
by the Board of Directors)
7. Whether the proposed sponsor is resident or non-resident
8. Whether the proposed sponsor or persons/ entities listed in
Part B of Form I has been subject to any proceedings of
serious disciplinary or criminal nature
Encl:
(i) Report of the ARC
(ii) Copy of the Board Resolution
(iii) Form I for individual sponsors
Signature of Authorised Official of the Company
Name:
Designation:
Company Seal:
Date:
Place:
- 76 -

Form III: Annual declaration (as on March 31 every year) to be furnished to the
ARC by all the existing sponsors of ARCs
Name of the ARC:
Sl. Particulars Remarks
No.
1. Name of the sponsor
2. Address of the sponsor
3. Occupation of the sponsor (in case of individuals)
4. Total number of shares /compulsorily convertible preference
shares/ debentures /bonds held by the sponsor in the ARC
5. Date/s of acquisition of shares/ compulsorily convertible preference
shares/ debentures/ bonds in the ARC in the past 5 years
6. Details of regulatory actions against the sponsors and persons/
entities listed in Part B of Form I by regulators in India or abroad,
during the last 5 years
7. Whether there have been any criminal proceedings against the
sponsor and persons/ entities listed in Part B of Form I during the
last 5 years, if so, details thereof.
8. Whether there have been any civil proceedings against the sponsor
and persons/ entities listed in Part B of Form I during the last 5 years,
if so, details thereof.
9. Change of ownership of the sponsor in the last 5 years (in case of
entities), if any
Signature and stamp of the sponsor
Place:
Date:
77

Annex VI
Para 137(2)
Template for Disclosure in Notes to Financial Statements
Loss Difference
Asset
Gross Allowances Provisions between Ind
classifica
Asset Classification as per RBI Carrying (Provisions) as Net Carrying required as per AS 109
tion as
Norms Amount as per required under Amount IRACP norms provisions and
per Ind AS
Ind AS Ind AS 109 IRACP norms
109
(1) (2) (3) (4) (5)=(3)-(4) (6) (7) = (4)-(6)
Performing Assets
Stage 1
Standard
Stage 2
Subtotal
Non-Performing Assets (NPA)
Substandard Stage 3
Doubtful - up to 1 year Stage 3
1 to 3 years Stage 3
More than 3 years Stage 3
Subtotal for doubtful
Loss Stage 3
Subtotal for NPA
Other items such as guarantees, loan Stage 1
commitments, etc. which are in the scope
Stage 2
of Ind AS 109 but not covered under
current Income Recognition, Asset
Classification and Provisioning (IRACP)
norms Stage 3
Subtotal
Stage 1
Stage 2
Total
Stage 3
Total
78