भारतीय �रज़वर् बैंक
RESERVE BANK OF INDIA
RBI/DOR/2025-26/337
DOR.ORG.REC.No.256/21-04-158/2025-26 November 28, 2025
Reserve Bank of India (All India Financial Institutions – Managing Risks in
Outsourcing) Directions, 2025
Table of Contents
CHAPTER I – PRELIMINARY ...................................................................................................... 3
A. Short Title and Commencement ........................................................................................... 3
B. Applicability and Scope ......................................................................................................... 3
C. Definitions ............................................................................................................................... 5
CHAPTER II – ROLE OF THE BOARD ....................................................................................... 8
A. Board-Approved Policy ......................................................................................................... 8
B. Key Responsibilities .............................................................................................................. 8
CHAPTER III – OUTSOURCING OF INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (IT) SERVICES ............. 9
A. Authorisation, Accountability, and Oversight ..................................................................... 9
B. Governance Framework ...................................................................................................... 10
B.1 Outsourcing Policy ......................................................................................................... 10
B.2 Role of Senior Management .......................................................................................... 11
B.3 Role of IT Function ......................................................................................................... 12
C. Risk Management ................................................................................................................. 12
C.1 Risk Management Framework ....................................................................................... 12
C.2 Confidentiality and Security of Information ................................................................. 13
D. Outsourcing Process ........................................................................................................... 14
D.1 Service Provider Evaluation .......................................................................................... 14
D.2 Outsourcing Agreement ................................................................................................. 15

D.3 Monitoring and Control of Outsourced Services ......................................................... 18
D.4 Inventory of Outsourced Services ................................................................................ 19
D.5 Business Continuity and Management of Disaster Recovery Plan ........................... 20
D.6 Exit Strategy .................................................................................................................... 20
D.7 Termination ..................................................................................................................... 21
E. Specific Outsourcing Arrangements .................................................................................. 21
E.1 Outsourcing within a Group / Conglomerate ............................................................... 21
E.2 Offshore or Cross-Border Outsourcing ........................................................................ 22
E.3 Outsourcing of Security Operations Centre (SOC) ..................................................... 22
E.4 Usage of Cloud Computing Services ............................................................................ 23
F. Redressal of Grievances related to Outsourced Services ................................................ 28
CHAPTER IV – REPEAL AND OTHER PROVISIONS .............................................................. 29
A. Repeal and Saving ............................................................................................................... 29
B. Application of other laws not barred .................................................................................. 29
C. Interpretations ...................................................................................................................... 30
2

In exercise of the powers conferred by Section 45L of the Reserve Bank of
India Act, 1934, and all other provisions / laws enabling the Reserve Bank of India
(‘RBI’) in this regard, RBI being satisfied that it is necessary and expedient in the public
interest so to do, hereby, issues the Directions hereinafter specified.
Chapter I – Preliminary
A. Short Title and Commencement
1. These Directions shall be called the Reserve Bank of India (All India Financial
Institutions - Managing Risks in Outsourcing) Directions, 2025.
2. These Directions shall come into force with immediate effect.
Provided that an All India Financial Institution’s existing Information Technology
(IT) outsourcing agreements regardless of whether they are due for renewal on or
after the effective date of these Directions shall comply with the provisions of these
Directions either at the time of renewal or by April 10, 2026, whichever is earlier.
However, the All India Financial Institution’s new IT outsourcing agreements that
come into force on or after the effective date of these Directions, shall comply with
the provisions of these Directions from the date of agreement itself.
Provided further that nothing in the preceding proviso shall be construed as
permitting non-compliance with any other extant regulatory instructions or statutory
requirements applicable to such arrangements.
B. Applicability and Scope
3. These Directions shall be applicable to All-India Financial Institutions (AIFIs)
namely Export Import Bank of India (‘EXIM Bank’), National Bank for Agriculture
and Rural Development (‘NABARD’), National Bank for Financing Infrastructure
and Development (‘NaBFID’), National Housing Bank (‘NHB’) and Small Industries
Development Bank of India (‘SIDBI’), hereinafter collectively referred to as ‘AIFIs’
and individually as an ‘AIFI’.
4. These Directions shall apply to an AIFI’s material outsourcing of IT services, as
defined in paragraph 6(3) of these Directions. In this context, ‘Outsourcing of IT
Services’ shall include outsourcing of the following services:
3

(i) IT infrastructure management, maintenance, and support (hardware,
software or firmware);
(ii) network and security solutions, and maintenance (hardware, software or
firmware);
(iii) application development, maintenance, and testing by Application Service
Providers (ASPs) including ATM Switch ASPs;
(iv) services and operations related to data centres;
(v) cloud computing services;
(vi) managed security services; and
(vii) management of IT infrastructure and technology services associated with
payment system ecosystem.
5. These Directions shall not apply to the following services:
(i) corporate internet banking services obtained by an AIFI as a corporate
customer or sub-member of another Regulated Entity (RE);
Provided that for the purpose of these Directions, the following indicative (but
not exhaustive) list of entities shall be considered as REs - Commercial
Banks; Local Area Banks; Small Finance Banks; Payments Banks; Regional
Rural Banks; Non-Banking Financial Companies in Base Layer (NBFC - BL),
Middle Layer (NBFC - ML), and Upper Layer (NBFC – UL); other AIFIs;
Credit Information Companies; Urban Co-operative Banks; Rural Co-
operative Banks; and, Payment System Operators.
For the purpose of these Directions, the ‘Commercial Banks’ means banking
companies (other than Small Finance Banks, Local Area Banks, Payments
Banks and Regional Rural Banks), corresponding new banks, and the State
Bank of India, as defined respectively under clauses (c), (da), and (nc) of
section 5 of the Banking Regulation Act, 1949.
(ii) external audit services such as Vulnerability Assessment (VA) / Penetration
Testing (PT), Information Systems Audit, and security review;
4

(iii) SMS gateways (including bulk SMS service providers);
(iv) procurement of IT hardware or appliances;
(v) acquisition of IT software, product or application (e.g., Core Banking Solution
(CBS), database, and security solutions) on a licence or subscription basis,
and any enhancements made to such licensed third-party applications by the
vendor (as upgrades) or on specific change request made by an AIFI;
(vi) any maintenance service (including security patches, bug fixes) for IT
infrastructure or licensed products, provided by the Original Equipment
Manufacturer (OEM) themselves, in order to ensure continued usage of the
same by the AIFI;
(vii) applications provided by financial sector regulators or institutions such as
Clearing Corporation of India Limited (CCIL), National Stock Exchange
(NSE), and Bombay Stock Exchange (BSE);
(viii) platforms provided by entities such as Reuters, Bloomberg, and Society for
Worldwide Interbank Financial Telecommunication (SWIFT);
(ix) any other off-the-shelf products (e.g., anti-virus software, and email solutions)
subscribed to by an AIFI, wherein only a license is procured with no or
minimal customisation;
(x) services obtained by an AIFI as a sub-member of a Centralised Payment
System (CPS) from another RE;
(xi) Business Correspondent (BC) services, payroll processing, and statement
printing.
C. Definitions
6. In these Directions, unless the context otherwise requires, the terms herein shall bear
the meanings assigned to them below:
(1) ‘Group’ shall be as defined in the Reserve Bank of India (Commercial Banks -
Concentration Risk Management) Directions, 2025, as amended from time to
time, for the purpose of intra-group transactions and exposures.
5

(2) ‘IT services’ means IT services / IT enabled services / IT activities.
(3) ‘Material Outsourcing of IT Services’ are those which:
(i) if disrupted or compromised shall have the potential to significantly impact the
AIFI’s business operations; or
(ii) may have material impact on the AIFI’s customers in the event of any
unauthorised access, loss or theft of customer information.
(4) ‘Outsourcing’ means use of a third-party (either an affiliated entity within a
corporate group or an entity that is external to the corporate group) by an AIFI to
perform activities on a continuing basis that would normally be undertaken by the
AIFI itself, now or in the future. 'Continuing basis' shall include agreements for a
limited period.
(5) ‘Service Provider’ means provider of IT services including entities related to the
AIFI or those which belong to the same group or conglomerate to which the AIFI
belongs.
Provided that for the purpose of these Directions, the following indicative (but not
exhaustive) list of vendors and entities shall not be considered as ‘Service
Providers’ as defined above:
(i) vendors providing business services using IT, (e.g., BCs);
(ii) Payment System Operators (PSOs) authorised by RBI under the Payment
and Settlement Systems Act, 2007 for setting up and operating Payment
Systems in India;
(iii) partnership based FinTech firms such as those providing co-branded
applications, products, and services;
(iv) FinTech firms providing services for data retrieval, and data validation and
verification such as, bank statement analysis, GST returns analysis, fetching
of vehicle information, digital document execution, data entry, and call
centre services.;
6

(v) telecom service providers from whom leased lines, or other similar kind of
infrastructure are availed and used for transmission of data; and
(vi) security or audit consultants appointed for certification, audit or VA / PT
related to IT infrastructure, IT services or Information Security services in
their role as independent third-party auditor, consultant or lead implementer.
(6) Explanation: In case an IT service is provided by RE to an AIFI (as applicable to
the scope of these Directions), even the RE could be considered as a service
provider of the AIFI, under these Directions. ‘Sub-contractor’ refers to those
providing material / significant IT services to the service provider and is specific to
the material / significant IT services arrangement that the AIFI has entered into
with the service provider.
7. All other expressions unless defined herein shall have the same meaning as have
been assigned to them under the Banking Regulation Act, 1949, or the Reserve Bank
of India Act, 1934, or the Information Technology Act, 2000, or the Companies Act,
2013, and Rules made thereunder, or any statutory modification or re-enactment
thereto, or Glossary of Terms published by RBI, or as used in commercial parlance,
as the case may be.
7

Chapter II – Role of the Board
8. The outsourcing of any IT service by an AIFI does not diminish its obligations, and
those of its Board and Senior Management, who have the ultimate responsibility for
the outsourced service.
A. Board-Approved Policy
9. An AIFI intending to outsource its IT services shall put in place a comprehensive
Board-approved IT outsourcing policy, the coverage of which is indicated in
paragraph 15.
B. Key Responsibilities
10. The Board shall be responsible, inter alia, for:
(i) putting in place a framework for approval of outsourcing services depending on
risks and materiality;
(ii) approving policies to evaluate the risks and materiality of all existing and
prospective outsourcing arrangements;
(iii) setting up suitable administrative framework of Senior Management;
(iv) ensuring either by itself or through its Committee, that there is no conflict of
interest arising out of third-party engagements, especially when permitting an
exception to the requirement that the service provider of outsourced services, if
not a group company, shall not be owned or controlled by any director, key
managerial personnel, approver of the outsourcing arrangement, or their
relatives as indicated under the proviso to paragraph 12(vi) of these Directions;
and
(v) reviewing any adverse development mentioned in reports put up to Senior
Management on the monitoring and control activities.
8

Chapter III – Outsourcing of Information Technology (IT) Services
A. Authorisation, Accountability, and Oversight
11. As stated in paragraph 8, the outsourcing of any IT service by an AIFI shall not
diminish its obligations, and those of its Board and Senior Management, who have
the ultimate responsibility for the outsourced service.
12. An AIFI shall ensure that:
(i) the service provider employs the same high standard of care in performing
the services as would be employed by the AIFI, if the services were
conducted within the AIFI and not outsourced;
(ii) it shall not engage a service provider that would result in its reputation being
compromised or weakened;
(iii) notwithstanding whether the service provider is located in India or abroad,
the outsourcing shall neither impede nor interfere with the ability of the AIFI
to effectively oversee and manage its services;
(iv) outsourcing does not impede the RBI in carrying out its supervisory functions
and objectives;
(v) all relevant laws, regulations, rules, guidelines, and conditions of approval,
licensing or registration have been considered when performing due
diligence in relation to outsourcing; and
(vi) the service provider, if not a group company, is not owned or controlled by
any director, or key managerial personnel, or approver of the outsourcing
arrangement of the AIFI, or their relatives. The terms ‘control’, ‘director’, ‘key
managerial personnel’, and ‘relative’ shall have the same meaning as
assigned under the Companies Act, 2013, and the Rules framed thereunder
from time to time.
Provided that an exception to the above requirement may be made with the
approval of Board or a Committee of the Board, followed by appropriate
disclosure, oversight, and monitoring of such arrangements.
9

13. An AIFI shall evaluate the need for outsourcing of IT services based on a
comprehensive assessment of attendant benefits, risks and availability of
commensurate processes to manage those risks. For this purpose, the AIFI shall,
inter alia, consider the following:
(i) the need for outsourcing based on materiality / criticality of service to be
outsourced;
(ii) expectations and outcomes from outsourcing;
(iii) success factors and cost-benefit analysis; and
(iv) the model for outsourcing.
14. An AIFI shall ensure that cyber incidents are reported to it by the service provider
without undue delay, so that an incident is reported by the AIFI to the RBI within six
hours of detection by the service provider.
B. Governance Framework
B.1 Outsourcing Policy
15. An AIFI intending to outsource any of its IT services shall put in place a
comprehensive Board-approved IT outsourcing policy incorporating, inter alia, the
following:
(i) the roles and responsibilities of the Board, Committees of the Board (if any)
and Senior Management, IT function, business function, and oversight and
assurance functions in respect of outsourcing of IT services;
(ii) criteria for selection of such services, and service providers;
(iii) parameters for defining material outsourcing based on the broad criteria
defined in paragraph 6(3) of these Directions;
(iv) delegation of authority depending on risk and materiality;
(v) disaster recovery and business continuity plans;
(vi) systems to monitor and review the operations of these services; and
10

(vii) termination processes and exit strategies, including business continuity in the
event of a service provider exiting the outsourcing arrangement.
B.2 Role of Senior Management
16. The Senior Management of an AIFI shall, inter alia, be responsible for:
(i) formulating IT outsourcing policies and procedures, evaluating the risks and
materiality of all existing and prospective IT outsourcing arrangements based
on the framework commensurate with the complexity, nature, and scope, in
line with the enterprise-wide risk management of the AIFI approved by the
Board and its implementation;
(ii) prior evaluation of prospective IT outsourcing arrangements and periodic
evaluation of the existing IT outsourcing arrangements covering the
performance review, criticality, and associated risks of all such arrangements
based on the policy approved by the Board;
(iii) identifying IT outsourcing risks as they arise, monitoring, mitigating, managing
and reporting of such risks to the Board or a Committee of the Board in a
timely manner;
(iv) ensuring that suitable business continuity plans based on realistic and
probable disruptive scenarios, including exit of any service provider, are in
place and tested periodically;
(v) ensuring (a) effective oversight over the service provider (and its sub-
contractors) for data confidentiality, and (b) appropriate redressal of customer
grievances in a timely manner;
(vi) ensuring an independent review and audit on a periodic basis for compliance
with the legislations, regulations, Board-approved policy, and performance
standards and reporting the same to Board or a Committee of the Board; and
(vii) creating essential capacity with required skillsets within the AIFI for proper
oversight of outsourced services.
11

B.3 Role of IT Function
17. The responsibilities of the IT Function of an AIFI shall, inter alia, include:
(i) assisting the Senior Management in identifying, measuring, monitoring,
mitigating, and managing the level of IT outsourcing risk in the AIFI;
(ii) ensuring that a central database of all IT outsourcing arrangements is
maintained and is accessible for review by Board, Senior Management,
auditors, and supervisors;
(iii) effectively monitoring and supervising the outsourced IT service to ensure that
the service providers meet the laid down performance standards and provide
uninterrupted services, reporting to the Senior Management, and co-ordinating
periodic due diligence, and highlighting concerns, if any; and
(iv) putting in place necessary documentation required for contractual agreements
including service level management, monitoring of vendor operations, key risk
indicators, and classifying the vendors as per the determined risk.
C. Risk Management
C.1 Risk Management Framework
18. An AIFI shall put in place a risk management framework that comprehensively
deals with the processes and responsibilities for identification, measurement,
mitigation, management, and reporting of risks associated with such IT outsourcing
arrangements.
19. An AIFI shall suitably document risk assessments with necessary approvals in line
with the roles and responsibilities of the Board of Directors, Senior Management,
and IT Function, and subject the same to internal and external quality assurance on
a periodic basis as determined by the Board-approved policy.
20. An AIFI shall effectively assess the impact of concentration risk posed by multiple
outsourcing arrangements to the same service provider, and the concentration risk
posed by outsourcing critical or material functions to a limited number of service
providers.
12

C.2 Confidentiality and Security of Information
21. An AIFI shall be responsible for the confidentiality and integrity of data and
information pertaining to its customers that are available to the service provider.
22. Access by service providers to data at the AIFI or its data centre shall be on ‘need
to know’ basis, with appropriate controls to prevent security breaches, or data
misuse.
23. An AIFI shall seek to ensure the security, preservation, and protection of the
customer information in the custody or possession of the service provider. Access
to customer information by a service provider or its staff shall be on a ‘need to
know’ basis.
24. In the event of multiple service provider relationships where two or more service
providers collaborate to deliver an end-to-end solution, the AIFI remains responsible
for understanding and monitoring the control environment of all service providers
that have access to its data, systems, records, or resources.
25. In instances, where a service provider acts as an outsourcing agent for multiple
REs, the AIFI shall take care to build adequate safeguards so that there is no
combining of information, documents, records, and assets.
Explanation: With regard to requirement that data should not be combined or
comingled, it would suffice if there is clear separation, and isolation of data (AIFI,
and its customer specific data and information) to ensure that only the personnel as
authorised by the AIFI is able to access data that belongs to them in a multi-tenant
environment / architecture.
26. An AIFI shall review and monitor the security practices and control processes of its
service providers on a regular basis and require the service provider to disclose
security breaches.
27. An AIFI shall immediately notify RBI in the event of breach of security, and leakage
of confidential customer-related information. In these eventualities, the AIFI shall
adhere to the extant instructions issued by RBI from time to time on Incident
Response and Recovery Management.
13

D. Outsourcing Process
D.1 Service Provider Evaluation
28. An AIFI shall perform appropriate due diligence while considering or renewing an
outsourcing arrangement, to assess the capability of the service provider to comply
with obligations in the outsourcing agreement on an ongoing basis.
29. The due diligence mentioned above shall involve an evaluation of all available
information, as applicable, about the service provider, including but not limited to:
(i) qualitative, quantitative, financial, operational, legal, and reputational factors;
(ii) while evaluating the capability of the service provider, risks arising from
concentration of outsourcing arrangements with a single or a few service
provider(s);
(iii) past experience and demonstrated competence to implement and support
the proposed service over the contracted period;
(iv) financial soundness and ability to service commitments even under adverse
conditions;
(v) business reputation and culture, compliance, complaints, and outstanding or
potential litigation;
(vi) conflict of interest, if any;
(vii) external factors like political, economic, social, and legal environment of the
jurisdiction in which the service provider operates, and other events that may
impact data security and service performance;
(viii) technology, infrastructural stability, security, and internal control, audit
coverage, reporting, and monitoring procedures, data backup arrangements,
business continuity management, and disaster recovery plan;
(ix) capability to identify and segregate the AIFI’s data;
(x) quality of due diligence exercised by the service provider of its employees,
and subcontractors;
14

(xi) capability to comply with the regulatory, and legal requirements of the
outsourcing arrangement;
(xii) information / cyber security risk assessment;
(xiii) ensuring that appropriate controls, assurance requirements, and contractual
arrangements are in place to ensure data protection and AIFI’s access to the
data which is processed, managed, or stored by the service provider;
(xiv) ability to effectively service all the customers while maintaining confidentiality,
especially where a service provider has exposure to multiple entities; and
(xv) ability to enforce agreements, and the rights available thereunder including
those relating to aspects such as data storage, data protection, and
confidentiality.
30. An AIFI shall adopt a risk-based approach in conducting such due diligence
activities.
31. Where possible, an AIFI shall obtain independent reviews and market feedback on
the service provider to supplement the findings of its own due diligence.
D.2 Outsourcing Agreement
32. An AIFI shall ensure that its rights and obligations and those of each service
provider are clearly defined and set out in a legally binding written agreement. In
principle, the provisions of the agreement shall appropriately reckon the criticality of
the outsourced task to the business of the AIFI, the associated risks, and the
strategies for mitigating or managing them.
33. The terms and conditions governing the outsourcing arrangement shall be carefully
defined and vetted by the AIFI’s legal counsel on their legal effect and enforceability.
The AIFI shall ensure that such an agreement is sufficiently flexible to allow the AIFI
to retain an adequate control over the outsourced service, and the right to intervene
with appropriate measures to meet legal and regulatory obligations. The agreement
shall also bring out the nature of legal relationship between the parties.
15

34. The agreement at a minimum shall include (as applicable to the scope of these
Directions) the following aspects:
(i) details of the service being outsourced, including appropriate service and
performance standards including for the sub-contractors, if any;
(ii) effective access by the AIFI to all data, books, records, information, logs,
alerts and business premises relevant to the outsourced service available
with the service provider;
(iii) regular monitoring and assessment by the AIFI of the service provider for
continuous management of the risks holistically, so that any necessary
corrective measure can be taken immediately;
(iv) type of material adverse events (e.g., data breaches, denial of service, and
service unavailability, relevant to the outsourced service) and the incidents
required to be reported to the AIFI, to enable the AIFI to take prompt risk
mitigation measures, and ensure compliance with statutory and regulatory
guidelines;
(v) compliance with the provisions of Information Technology Act, 2000, and
other applicable legal requirements and standards to protect the customer
data;
(vi) the deliverables including Service Level Agreements (SLAs) formalising
performance criteria to measure the quality and quantity of service levels;
(vii) storage of data only in India (as applicable) as per extant regulatory
requirements;
(viii) clauses requiring the service provider to provide details of data (related to
the AIFI and its customers) captured, processed, and stored;
(ix) controls for maintaining confidentiality of data of the AIFI and its customers,
and incorporating service provider’s liability to the AIFI in the event of
security breach and leakage of such information;
16

(x) types of data / information that the service provider is permitted to share with
AIFI’s customer or any other party;
(xi) the resolution process, events of default, indemnities, remedies, and
recourse available to the respective parties;
(xii) contingency plan(s) to ensure business continuity and testing requirements;
(xiii) right to conduct audits on the service provider (including its subcontractors)
by the AIFI, whether by its internal or external auditors, or by agents
appointed to act on its behalf, and to obtain copies of any audit or review
reports and findings made on the service provider in conjunction with the
services performed for the AIFI;
(xiv) right to seek information from the service provider about the third parties (in
the supply chain) engaged by the former;
(xv) recognising the authority of RBI or person(s) authorised by it to perform
inspection of the service provider and any of its sub-contractors.
(xvi) clauses to allow RBI or person(s) authorised by it to access the AIFI’s IT
infrastructure, applications, data, documents, and other necessary
information given to, stored or processed, by the service provider, or its sub-
contractors, in relation and as applicable to the scope of the outsourcing
arrangement;
(xvii) clauses making the service provider contractually liable for the performance,
and risk management practices of its subcontractors;
(xviii) obligation of the service provider to comply with directions issued by the RBI
in relation to the services outsourced to the service provider, through specific
contractual terms and conditions specified by the AIFI;
(xix) clauses requiring prior approval or consent, as applicable, of the AIFI for the
use of subcontractors by the service provider for all or part of an outsourced
service;
17

(xx) termination rights of the AIFI, including the ability to orderly transfer the
proposed outsourcing arrangement to another service provider, if necessary
or desirable;
(xxi) obligation of the service provider to co-operate with the relevant authorities in
case of insolvency / resolution of the AIFI;
(xxii) provision to consider skilled resources of service provider who provide core
services as ‘essential personnel’ so that a limited number of staff with back-
up arrangements necessary to operate critical functions can work on-site
during exigencies (including pandemic situations);
(xxiii) clause requiring suitable back-to-back arrangements between service
providers, and the OEMs; and
(xxiv) clause requiring non-disclosure agreement with respect to information
retained by the service provider.
D.3 Monitoring and Control of Outsourced Services
35. An AIFI shall have in place a management structure to monitor and control its
outsourced services. This shall include (as applicable to the scope of these
Directions), but not be limited to, monitoring the performance, uptime of the systems
and resources, service availability, adherence to SLA requirements, and incident
response mechanism.
36. An AIFI shall conduct regular audits (as applicable to the scope of these Directions)
of service providers (including sub-contractors) with regard to the service outsourced
by it. Such audits may be conducted either by AIFI’s internal or external auditors
appointed to act on AIFI’s behalf.
37. While outsourcing various IT services, more than one RE may be availing services
from the same service provider. In such scenarios, in lieu of conducting separate
audits by individual REs of the common service provider, they may adopt pooled
(shared) audit. This allows the relevant REs to either pool their audit resources or
engage an independent third-party auditor to jointly audit a common service
provider. However, in doing so, it shall be the responsibility of REs in ensuring that
18

the audit requirements related to their respective contract with the service provider
are met effectively.
38. The audits shall assess, inter alia, the performance of the service provider,
adequacy of the risk management practices adopted by the service provider, and
compliance with laws and regulations. The frequency of the audit shall be
determined based on the nature and extent of risk, and impact on the AIFI from the
outsourcing arrangements. Reports on the monitoring and control activities shall be
reviewed periodically by the Senior Management, and in case of any adverse
development, the same shall be put up to the Board for information.
39. An AIFI, depending upon the risk assessment, may also rely upon globally
recognised third-party certifications made available by the service provider in lieu of
conducting independent audits. However, this shall not absolve the AIFI of its
responsibility in ensuring assurance on the controls, and procedures required to
safeguard data security (including availability of systems) at the service provider’s
end.
40. An AIFI shall periodically review the financial, and operational condition of the
service provider to assess its ability to continue to meet its obligations. An AIFI shall
adopt risk-based approach in defining the periodicity. Such due diligence reviews
shall highlight any deterioration or breach in performance standards, confidentiality
and security, and operational resilience preparedness.
41. An AIFI shall ensure that the service provider grants unrestricted and effective
access to (a) data related to the outsourced services; (b) the relevant business
premises of the service provider; subject to appropriate security protocols, for the
purpose of effective oversight by the AIFI, its auditors, RBI, and other relevant
Competent Authorities, as authorised under law.
D.4 Inventory of Outsourced Services
42. An AIFI shall create an inventory of IT services outsourced to service providers
(including key entities involved in their supply chains). Further, the AIFI shall map its
dependency on third parties, and periodically evaluate the information received from
the service providers.
19

D.5 Business Continuity and Management of Disaster Recovery Plan
43. An AIFI shall require its service providers to develop and establish a robust
framework for documenting, maintaining, and testing Business Continuity Plan
(BCP), and Disaster Recovery Plan (DRP) commensurate with the nature, and
scope of the outsourced service as per extant instructions issued by RBI from time
to time on BCP / DR requirements.
44. In establishing a viable contingency plan, an AIFI shall consider the availability of
alternative service providers or the possibility of bringing the outsourced service
back in-house in an emergency, and the costs, time, and resources that would be
involved.
45. In order to mitigate the risk of unexpected termination of the outsourcing agreement
or insolvency or liquidation of its service provider, an AIFI shall retain an appropriate
level of control over its outsourcing arrangement along with the right to intervene
with appropriate measures to continue its business operations.
46. An AIFI shall ensure that its service providers are able to isolate the AIFI’s
information, documents, and records, and other assets so that in adverse conditions
or termination of the agreement, all documents, records of transactions, and
information given to the service provider, and assets of the AIFI, can be removed
from the possession of the service provider, or deleted, destroyed or rendered
unusable.
D.6 Exit Strategy
47. The IT outsourcing policy shall contain a clear exit strategy with regard to
outsourced IT services, for ensuring business continuity during and after exit.
48. The strategy shall include plans for different scenarios of exit, or termination of
services with stipulation of minimum period to execute such plans, as necessary.
49. In documenting its exit strategy, an AIFI shall, inter alia, identify alternative
arrangements, which may include performing the service by a different service
provider, or by the AIFI itself.
20

50. A service provider shall be legally obliged to co-operate fully with both the AIFI and
its new service provider(s) to ensure there is a smooth transition.
51. An AIFI shall ensure that outsourcing agreements have necessary clauses on safe
removal or destruction of data, hardware, and all records (digital and physical), as
applicable.
52. The outsourcing agreement shall ensure that the service provider is prohibited from
erasing, purging, revoking, altering, or changing any data during the transition
period, unless specifically advised by the RBI, or the concerned AIFI.
D.7 Termination
53. In the event of termination of the outsourcing agreement for any reason in cases
where the service provider deals with the customers of the AIFI, the same shall be
given due publicity by the AIFI so as to ensure that the customers stop dealing with
the concerned service provider.
E. Specific Outsourcing Arrangements
E.1 Outsourcing within a Group / Conglomerate
54. An AIFI may outsource any IT service within its business group / conglomerate,
provided that such an arrangement is backed by the Board-approved policy, and
appropriate SLAs / agreements with its group entities are in place.
55. The selection of a group entity shall be based on objective reasons that are similar
to selection of a third-party, and the AIFI shall appropriately deal with any conflicts of
interest that such an outsourcing arrangement may entail.
56. An AIFI, at all times, shall maintain an arm's length relationship in dealings with its
group entities. Risk management practices being adopted by the AIFI while
outsourcing to a group entity shall be identical to those specified for a non-related
party.
21

E.2 Offshore or Cross-Border Outsourcing
57. In principle, outsourcing arrangements shall only be entered into with parties
operating in jurisdictions that generally uphold confidentiality clauses, and
agreements.
58. While engaging with service provider(s) in a foreign country, an AIFI shall:
(i) closely monitor government policies of the jurisdiction in which the service
provider is based, and the political, social, economic, and legal conditions on a
continuous basis, and establish sound procedures for mitigating the country
risk. This includes, inter alia, having appropriate contingency and exit
strategies;
(ii) clearly specify the governing law of the outsourcing arrangement;
(iii) ensure that availability of records to the AIFI, and the RBI will not be affected
even in case of liquidation of the service provider;
(iv) ensure the right of the AIFI, and RBI to direct, and conduct audit or inspection
of the service provider based in a foreign jurisdiction; and
(v) ensure that the arrangement complies with all statutory requirements as well
as regulations issued by the RBI from time to time.
E.3 Outsourcing of Security Operations Centre (SOC)
59. Considering the risks associated with outsourcing of Security Operations Centre
(SOC) operations by an AIFI, such as data being stored, and processed at an
external location, and managed by the service provider (or its sub-contractors) to
which the AIFI has lesser visibility, the AIFI, to mitigate the risks, shall adopt the
following requirements in the case of outsourcing of SOC operations, in addition to
the controls prescribed in these Directions:
(i) unambiguously identify the owner of assets used in providing the services
(e.g., systems, software, source code, processes, and concepts);
22

(ii) ensure that the AIFI has adequate oversight, and ownership over the rule
definition, customisation, and related data / logs, meta-data, and analytics
(specific to the AIFI);
(iii) assess SOC functioning, including all physical facilities involved in service
delivery, such as the SOC and areas where client data is stored or processed
periodically;
(iv) integrate the outsourced SOC reporting, and escalation process with the AIFI’s
incident response process; and
(v) review the process of handling of the alerts or events.
E.4 Usage of Cloud Computing Services
60. Several cloud deployment, and service models have emerged over time. These are
generally based on the extent of technology stack that is proposed to be adopted by
the consuming entity.
(1) Example - 1: (i) Some cloud services are:
(a) Infrastructure as a Service (IaaS): The service provides computing,
storage, network, and other basic resources so that the client can develop
and deploy their applications.
(b) Platform as a Service (PaaS): The service provides software for building
application, middleware, database, development environment, and other
tools along with the infrastructure to the client.
(c) Software as a Service (SaaS): Client uses the application(s) provided by
the service provider on a cloud infrastructure.
(ii) Besides the three common application services, Cloud Service Providers
(CSPs) also provide a range of services, viz., Database as a Service, Security as
a Service, Storage as a Service, and others with varying risk levels.
(2) Example - 2: Some of the popular deployment models for delivery of cloud
services are Private Cloud, Public Cloud, Hybrid Cloud, and Community Cloud.
23

61. Considering the varied services, benefits, and risk profiles associated with the cloud
deployment and service models, an AIFI that uses cloud services for storage,
computing, and movement of data in cloud environments shall, in addition to other
applicable provisions in these Directions:
(i) undertake a comprehensive assessment of its business strategy, and goals
adopted to the existing IT applications’ footprint, and associated costs. Such
assessment shall include, but not be limited to, an analysis of various heads of
cloud-related expenditure, such as application refactoring, integration,
consulting, migration, and projected recurring expenditure depending on the
nature of workloads. The extent of cloud adoption may vary, ranging from
migration of non-business critical workloads to the cloud, to deployment of
critical business applications such as SaaS, or other combinations in between,
and shall be determined based on a duly conducted business technology risk
assessment;
(ii) ensure, inter alia, that the ‘IT outsourcing policy’, referred to in paragraph 15 of
these Directions, addresses the entire lifecycle of data, i.e., covering the entire
span of time from generation of the data to its entry into the cloud, and till the
data is permanently erased or deleted. It shall also ensure that specified
procedures are consistent with business needs, and legal and regulatory
requirements;
(iii) take into account cloud service specific factors, viz., multi-tenancy and multi-
location storing or processing of data, and attendant risks while establishing
appropriate risk management framework;
(iv) implement necessary controls by referring to the cloud security best practices,
as per applicability of the shared responsibility model between the AIFI and the
Cloud Service Provider (CSP);
For cloud security best practices, an AIFI may refer to, inter alia, NIST SP 800-
210 General Access Control Guidance for Cloud Systems
https://nvlpubs.nist.gov/nistpubs/SpecialPublications/NIST.SP.800-210.pdf
24

(v) put in place strong cloud governance by adopting and demonstrating a well-
established and documented cloud adoption policy. Such a policy shall, inter
alia,
(a) identify the services that can be moved to the cloud;
(b) enable and support protection of various stakeholder interests;
(c) ensure compliance with regulatory requirements, including those on
privacy, security, data sovereignty, recoverability, and data storage
requirements, aligned with data classification; and
(d) provide for appropriate due diligence to manage and continually monitor
the risks associated with CSPs;
(vi) ensure that the selection of a CSP is based on a comprehensive risk
assessment of the CSP. An AIFI shall enter into a contract only with CSPs that
are subject to jurisdictions that uphold enforceability of agreements, and the
rights available thereunder to the AIFI, including those relating to aspects such
as data storage, data protection, and confidentiality;
(vii) ensure that the service and technology architecture supporting cloud-based
applications is built in adherence to globally recognised architecture principles,
and standards. The technology architecture shall:
(a) provide for a standard set of tools and processes to manage containers,
images, and releases;
(b) provide for a secure container-based data management, where encryption
keys, and Hardware Security Modules are under the control of the AIFI;
(c) be protected against data integrity and confidentiality risks, and against
co-mingling of data, in case of multi-tenancy environments; and
(d) be resilient, and enable smooth recovery in case of failure of any one or
combination of components across the cloud architecture with minimal
impact on data / information security;
25

(viii) agree upon the Identity and Access Management (IAM) with the CSP and
ensure that role-based access to the cloud hosted applications, both in
respect of user-access and privileged-access, is provided. The AIFI shall:
(a) establish stringent access controls, as applicable for an on-premises
application, for IAM for cloud-based applications;
(b) implement segregation of duties, role conflict matrix for all kinds of user-
access, and privileged-access roles in the cloud-hosted application
irrespective of the cloud service model;
(c) ensure that access provisioning is governed by principles of ‘need to
know’, and ‘least privileges’; and
(d) implement multi-factor authentication for access to cloud applications;
(ix) ensure that the implementation of security controls in the cloud-based
application achieves similar or higher degree of control objectives than those
achieved in, or by an on-premises application. This includes ensuring secure
connection through appropriate deployment of network security resources
and their configurations, appropriate and secure configurations, monitoring of
the cloud assets utilised by the AIFI, and necessary procedures to authorise
changes to cloud applications, and related resources;
(x) define minimum monitoring requirements in the cloud environment and
assess the information / cyber security capability of the CSP, to ensure that it:
(a) maintains an information security policy framework commensurate with its
exposures to vulnerabilities and threats;
(b) is able to maintain its information / cyber security capability with respect to
changes in vulnerabilities and threats, including those resulting from
changes to information assets or its business environment;
(c) has set the nature and frequency of testing of controls in respect of the
outsourced services commensurate with the materiality of the services
being outsourced by the AIFI, and the threat environment; and
26

(d) has mechanisms in place to assess the subcontractors with regards to
confidentiality, integrity, and availability of the data being shared with
them, where applicable;
(xi) ensure appropriate integration of logs and events from the CSP into the AIFI’s
SOC, wherever applicable, and retention of relevant logs in cloud for incident
reporting, and handling of incidents relating to services deployed on the
cloud;
(xii) ensure that the cyber resilience controls of the CSP complement the AIFI’s
own application security measures, and that both the AIFI and the CSP
maintain continuous and regular updates of security-related software,
including upgrades, fixes, patches, and service packs, to safeguard
applications against advanced threats and malware;
(xiii) ensure that the CSP has a well-governed and structured approach to manage
threats and vulnerabilities supported by requisite industry-specific threat
intelligence capabilities;
(xiv) ensure that the business continuity framework provides for continued
operation of critical functions in the event of a disaster affecting the AIFI’s
cloud services or failure of the CSP, with minimal disruption to services, and
without compromising data integrity and security;
(xv) ensure that the CSP has put in place demonstrative capabilities for
preparedness and readiness for cyber resilience as regards cloud services in
use by them through, inter alia, robust incident response and recovery
practices including conduct of DR drills at various levels of cloud services
including necessary stakeholders;
(xvi) develop an exit strategy that shall
(a) factor, inter alia, agreed processes and turnaround times for returning the
AIFI’s service collaterals and data held by the CSP, data completeness,
and portability, secure purge of AIFI’s information from the CSP’s
environment, smooth transition of services and unambiguous definition of
27

liabilities, damages, penalties and indemnities, which should also be a
part of the service level stipulations in SLA;
(b) include exit plans which align with the ongoing design of applications, and
service delivery technology stack;
(c) include contractually agreed exit / termination plans, which specify how
the cloud-hosted service(s) and data will be moved out from the cloud
with minimal impact on continuity of the AIFI’s business, while
maintaining integrity and security; and
(d) include clauses for prompt take-over of all records of transactions,
customer, and operational information, and configuration data in a
systematic manner from the CSP, and purging at the CSP end, and
ensuring independent assurance before signing off from the CSP;
(xvii) ensure that the audit / periodic review / third-party certifications cover, as per
applicability and cloud usage, inter alia, aspects such as roles and
responsibilities of both AIFI and CSP in cloud governance, access and
network controls, configurations, monitoring mechanism, data encryption, log
review, change management, incident response, and resilience
preparedness and testing.
F. Redressal of Grievances related to Outsourced Services
62. An AIFI shall have a robust grievance redressal mechanism that shall not be
compromised in any manner on account of outsourcing, i.e., responsibility for
redressal of customers’ grievances related to outsourced services shall rest with the
AIFI.
63. Outsourcing arrangements entered into by an AIFI shall not affect the rights of its
customers against the AIFI, including the ability of the customers to obtain redressal
as applicable under relevant laws.
28

Chapter IV – Repeal and Other Provisions
A. Repeal and Saving
64. With the issue of these Directions, the existing Directions, instructions, and
guidelines relating to outsourcing of IT services as applicable to AIFIs, stand
repealed, as communicated vide circular DOR.RRC.REC.302/33-01-010/2025-26
dated November 28, 2025. The Directions, instructions, and guidelines repealed
prior to the issuance of these Directions shall continue to remain repealed.
65. Notwithstanding such repeal, any action taken or purported to have been taken, or
initiated under the repealed Directions, instructions, or guidelines shall continue to
be governed by the provisions thereof. All approvals or acknowledgments granted
under these repealed lists shall be deemed as governed by these
Directions. Further, the repeal of these Directions, instructions, or guidelines shall
not in any way prejudicially affect:
(1) any right, obligation or liability acquired, accrued, or incurred thereunder;
(2) any, penalty, forfeiture, or punishment incurred in respect of any contravention
committed thereunder;
(3) any investigation, legal proceeding, or remedy in respect of any such right,
privilege, obligation, liability, penalty, forfeiture, or punishment as aforesaid;
and any such investigation, legal proceedings or remedy may be instituted,
continued, or enforced and any such penalty, forfeiture or punishment may be
imposed as if those Directions, instructions, or guidelines had not been
repealed.
B. Application of other laws not barred
66. The provisions of these Directions shall be in addition to, and not in derogation of
the provisions of any other laws, rules, regulations, or Directions, for the time being
in force.
29

C. Interpretations
67. For the purpose of giving effect to the provisions of these Directions, or in order to
remove any difficulties in the application or interpretation of the provisions of these
Directions, the RBI may, if it considers necessary, issue necessary clarifications in
respect of any matter covered herein, and the interpretation of any provision of
these Directions given by the RBI shall be final and binding.
(Sunil T S Nair)
Chief General Manager
30