भारतीय �रज़वर् बैंक
RESERVE BANK OF INDIA
RBI/DOR/2025-26/158
DOR.CRE.REC.77/07-03-001/2025-26 November 28, 2025
Reserve Bank of India (Commercial Banks - Concentration Risk Management)
Directions, 2025 (Updated as on July 01, 2026)
Table of Contents
Chapter I - Preliminary ...........................................................................................................2
Chapter II – Role of the Board ..............................................................................................7
Chapter III - Large Exposures Framework ...........................................................................9
Chapter IV - Enhancing Credit Supply for Large Borrowers through Market Mechanism
...............................................................................................................................................3 5
Chapter V - Exposure Norms ..............................................................................................3 6
Chapter VI - Prudential Limits on Intra-Group Transactions and Exposure .................. 44
Chapter VII – Management of Country Risk Exposure .....................................................5 0
Chapter VIII - Prudential Limits for Inter-Bank Liabilities (IBL) .......................................5 2
Chapter IX - Repeal and other provisions .........................................................................5 3
Annex - I ................................................................................................................................5 4
Annex - II ...............................................................................................................................5 6

Introduction
The concentration of a bank’s exposures to a single counterparty or a group of
connected counterparties poses significant risks. The Reserve Bank of India (RBI),
recognizing the imperative of robust risk management, therefore introduced prudential
exposure limits in March 1989. These limits restricted banks’ exposures to individual
borrower and group borrowers to a certain percentage of capital funds, laying the
foundation for mitigating concentration risk on assets side of their balance sheets.
Cognizant of the concentration risk on the liability side of the balance sheet, the RBI
introduced Prudential Limits for Inter-Bank Liabilities in 2007 further strengthening its
comprehensive approach on concentration risk management. Subsequently, guided
by evolving international standards, including the Basel Committee on Banking
Supervision’s (BCBS) guidance on ‘Measuring and Controlling Large Credit
Exposures’ (1991) and subsequent Core Principles for Effective Banking Supervision
(2006, revised in 2024), the RBI aligned its framework with global best practices. This
culminated in the adoption of the BCBS’s ‘Supervisory Framework for Measuring and
Controlling Large Exposures’ (2014), which was adopted for Indian Scheduled
Commercial Banks in 2019. In addition to the prudential measures on concentrations
to counterparties, and recognizing the need for sectoral diversification, the RBI has
also mandated regulatory exposure limits for capital market exposures and advised
banks to establish their own sector-specific thresholds for other sectors.
Accordingly, in exercise of the powers conferred by Sections 21 and 35A of the
Banking Regulation Act, 1949, and all other provisions / laws enabling the Reserve
Bank of India (‘RBI’) in this regard, RBI being satisfied that it is necessary and
expedient in the public interest so to do, hereby, issues the Directions hereinafter
specified.
Chapter I - Preliminary
A. Short Title and Commencement
1. These Directions shall be called the Reserve Bank of India (Commercial Banks -
Concentration Risk Management) Directions, 2025.
2. These Directions shall come into effect immediately upon issuance.
2

B. Applicability
3. These Directions shall be applicable to Commercial Banks (hereinafter collectively
referred to as 'banks' and individually as a 'bank').
For the purpose of these Directions, “Commercial Banks” mean banking companies
(other than Small Finance Banks, Payment Banks, and Local Area Banks),
corresponding new banks, and the State Bank of India, as defined respectively under
clauses (c), (da) and (nc) of Section 5 of the Banking Regulation Act,1949.
C. Definitions
4. In these Directions, unless the context states otherwise, the terms herein shall bear
the meaning assigned to them in the ensuing paragraphs.
(1) 1[*****]
(2) 2[*****]
3[(2A) “Acquisition Finance” shall have the same meaning as defined in the
Reserve Bank of India (Commercial Banks – Credit Facilities) Directions, 2025.
(2B) “Bridge Finance” shall have the same meaning as defined in the Reserve
Bank of India (Commercial Banks – Credit Facilities) Directions, 2025.
(2C) “Capital Market Intermediaries (CMIs)” shall have the same meaning as
defined in the Reserve Bank of India (Commercial Banks – Credit Facilities)
Directions, 2025.
(2D) “Collateral Security” or “Collateral” shall have the same meaning as
defined in the Reserve Bank of India (Commercial Banks – Credit Facilities)
Directions, 2025.]
(3) 4“Eligible capital base” means the effective amount of Tier 1 capital fulfilling
the criteria defined in the Reserve Bank of India (Commercial Banks – Prudential
Norms on Capital Adequacy) Directions, 2025, as per the last audited balance
sheet. However, the infusion of capital under Tier I after the published balance sheet
1 Deleted with effect from January 01, 2026 consequent to the Reserve Bank of India (Commercial Banks -
Concentration Risk Management) Amendment Directions, 2025 dated December 04, 2025.
2 Deleted with effect from January 01, 2026 consequent to the Reserve Bank of India (Commercial Banks -
Concentration Risk Management) Amendment Directions, 2025 dated December 04, 2025.
3 Inserted with effect from July 01, 2026 consequent to Reserve Bank of India (Commercial Banks - Concentration
Risk Management) Amendment Directions, 2026 (Revised) dated March 30, 2026
4 Amended with effect from April 01, 2026 consequent to the Reserve Bank of India (Commercial Banks -
Concentration Risk Management) Amendment Directions, 2025 dated December 04, 2025.
3

date may also be taken into account. A bank shall obtain an external auditor’s
certificate on completion of the augmentation of capital and submit the same to the
RBI (DOS, CO) before reckoning the additions to capital funds. Further, for an
Indian bank, profit accrued during the year, subject to provisions contained in
Reserve Bank of India (Commercial Banks – Prudential Norms on Capital
Adequacy) Directions, 2025, shall also be reckoned as Tier I capital for this purpose.
(4) 5[*****]
(5) “Group” for the purpose of intragroup transactions and exposures (ITE)
shall have the following definition:
(i) “Group” shall be defined as an arrangement involving two or more entities
related to each other through any of the following relationships (subsidiary,
associate, joint venture and related party as defined in the applicable
accounting standards) and a 'group entity' as any entity involved in this
arrangement.
(ii) Entities considered under the definition of ‘Group Entities’
(a) Subsidiary – Parent.
(b) Associate.
(c) Joint Venture.
(d) Related Party (including structures such as SPV / SIV / conduits based
upon the actual ownership / control / significant influence / beneficial
interest).
(e) Direct or indirect ownership of 20 percent or more interest in the voting
power of the enterprise. If exercise of voting power is restricted by statutory
/ regulatory provisions or other arrangements, then the actual ownership
will be the determining factor.
(f) Common brand name.
(g) Promoters of bank (Promoters and Promoter Group as defined in Reserve
Bank of India (Commercial Banks – Licensing) Guidelines, 2025).
5 Deleted with effect from April 01, 2026 consequent to the Reserve Bank of India (Commercial Banks -
Concentration Risk Management) Amendment Directions, 2025 dated December 04, 2025.
4

(h) Non-Operative Financial Holding Company (NOFHC) of bank.
(i) An entity which has any of the first six relations, as above, with the
promoters / NOFHC and their step-down entities.
(iii) Entities Exempted from the Definition of ‘Group Entities’
(a) As the ownership of Public Sector Banks (PSBs) lies with the Government
of India, all PSBs could be treated as group entities. However, the
Government being a sovereign, its role as promoter and owner of the PSBs
would not cause these entities to be treated as group entities. The other
relationships as defined in the paragraph 4(5)(ii) may, however, be
applicable for identifying entities of each public sector banking group
separately.
(b) Entities that are promoted by a financial sector intermediary including a
bank to undertake financial market infrastructure activities would not be
treated as group entities. Such institutions could be depositories,
exchanges, clearing and settlement agencies, etc. that are supervised and
regulated by the respective financial sector regulators. Exposures of a bank
to these entities shall be subject to the extant exposure limits stipulated by
the RBI.
(c) 6[The branches in other jurisdictions being part of a parent bank’s
operations shall not be covered under the intra-group exposure limits
stipulated in paragraph 116. Accordingly, an Indian bank’s exposure to its
overseas branches and a foreign bank’s (operating as branches in India)
exposure to its Head Office and overseas branches of the Head Office in
any jurisdiction shall not be covered under the ITE norms. Exposures of a
foreign bank (operating as branches) to its Head Office and other overseas
branches of the Head Office would however continue to be subject to
compliance with the Reserve Bank of India (Commercial Banks – Prudential
Norms on Capital Adequacy) Directions, 2025.]
(6) “Large Exposure” or “LE” is the sum of all exposure values of a bank
(measured as specified in paragraphs 32 to 85 of Chapter III on Large Exposures
6 Amended with effect from April 01, 2026 consequent to the Reserve Bank of India (Commercial Banks -
Concentration Risk Management) Amendment Directions, 2025 dated December 04, 2025.
5

Framework) to a counterparty or a group of connected counterparties (as defined
in paragraphs 19 to 31), if it is equal to or above 10 percent of the bank’s eligible
capital base.
(7) 7[*****]
(8) 8[*****]
(9) 9[*****]
10[(9A) “Non-debt Mutual Funds” shall mean mutual fund schemes corpus of
which are not exclusively invested in debt securities.
(9B) “Primary Security” shall have the same meaning as defined in the Reserve
Bank of India (Commercial Banks – Credit Facilities) Directions, 2025.]
(10) “Qualifying Central Counterparty” or “QCCP” is an entity that is licensed to
operate as a central counterparty (CCP), including a license granted by way of
confirming an exemption, and is permitted by the appropriate regulator / overseer
to operate as such with respect to the products offered. This is subject to the
provision that the CCP is based and prudentially supervised in a jurisdiction where
the relevant regulator / overseer has established, and publicly indicated that it
applies to the CCP on an ongoing basis, domestic rules and regulations that are
consistent with the CPSS-IOSCO Principles for Financial Market Infrastructures.
(11) 11[*****]
(12) 12[*****]
5. All other expressions unless defined herein shall have the same meaning as have
been assigned to them under the Banking Regulation Act, 1949 or the Reserve Bank
of India Act, 1934 or any statutory modification or re-enactment thereto or as used in
commercial parlance, as the case may be.
7 Deleted with effect from January 01, 2026 consequent to the Reserve Bank of India (Commercial Banks -
Concentration Risk Management) Amendment Directions, 2025 dated December 04, 2025.
8 Deleted with effect from July 01, 2026 consequent to Reserve Bank of India (Commercial Banks - Concentration
Risk Management) Amendment Directions, 2026 (Revised) dated March 30, 2026
9 Deleted with effect from January 01, 2026 vide Reserve Bank of India (Commercial Banks - Concentration Risk
Management) Amendment Directions, 2025 dated December 04, 2025.
10 Inserted with effect from July 01, 2026 consequent to Reserve Bank of India (Commercial Banks - Concentration
Risk Management) Amendment Directions, 2026 (Revised) dated March 30, 2026
11 Deleted with effect from January 01, 2026 vide Reserve Bank of India (Commercial Banks - Concentration Risk
Management) Amendment Directions, 2025 dated December 04, 2025.
12 Deleted with effect from January 01, 2026 vide Reserve Bank of India (Commercial Banks - Concentration Risk
Management) Amendment Directions, 2025 dated December 04, 2025.
6

Chapter II – Role of the Board
6. 13[Banks shall have policies on Concentration Risk Management of their exposures
towards a single counterparty, groups of interconnected counterparties, specific sectors of
the economy as also systems to monitor and address the risks emanating to them from
their exposures to ultra-large borrowers who are excessively leveraged and have
substantial borrowings from the banking system. While banks can have their own criteria
for deciding an ultra-large borrower, they shall take into account inter alia the overall
borrowings of such entities from the banking system for credit assessment of such
borrowers.] A list of the Board approved policies / limits to be formulated / set by the bank
as well as reviews to be carried out by / put up to the Board are given below, with the details
outlined in the ensuing paragraphs.
(1) Board-approved policies and limits
(i) Policy for permitting an additional five percent exposure of the bank’s available
eligible capital base beyond regulatory prescribed ceiling of 20 per cent of the
eligible capital base for exposure values of a bank to a single counterparty in terms
of Chapter III, in exceptional cases.
(ii) Policy for determining connectedness among counterparties.
(iii) Limits for aggregate commitments to specific sectors, e.g. textiles, jute, tea, etc.,
so that the exposures are evenly spread over various sectors. These limits could
be fixed by the banks having regard to the performance of different sectors and the
risks perceived.
(iv) Limits in respect of various sub-segments under consumer credit, particularly limits
for unsecured consumer credit exposures.
(v) 14[Policy for fixing intra-day exposure limits to the capital markets within the
prudential limits prescribed in these Directions for a bank’s aggregate capital
market exposures (CME).]
(vi) Limits for outstanding lending transactions in the call / notice / term money market
within the large exposure limits prescribed for single counterparty / group of
connected counterparties under LEF.
13 Inserted with effect from January 01, 2026 vide Reserve Bank of India (Commercial Banks - Concentration Risk
Management) Amendment Directions, 2025 dated December 04, 2025.
14 Substituted with effect from July 01, 2026 consequent to Reserve Bank of India (Commercial Banks - Concentration
Risk Management) Amendment Directions, 2026 (Revised) dated March 30, 2026
7

(vii) Policy on monitoring and management of intra-group transactions and exposures
(ITEs).
(viii) Internal Ceiling, within the regulatory prescribed ceilings, for capital market
exposure.
(ix) Country exposure limits in relation to the bank’s regulatory capital (Tier I + Tier II)
with sub-limits, if considered necessary for products, branches, maturity, etc.
(x) Regional exposure limits for country groups, at the discretion of its Board.
(2) Review by / reporting to the Board - The following reviews and reporting shall
be put up to the Board:
(i) Material ITEs.
(ii) Dealings with group entities inconsistent with benchmarks set for third party / non-
group entities.
(iii) An annual review of the implementation of exposure management measures
before the end of June.
(iv) The limits towards specific sectors, at periodicity as necessary.
8

Chapter III - Large Exposures Framework
A. Scope of Application
7. Large Exposures Framework (LEF) shall be applied by a Commercial Bank at the same
level as the risk-based capital requirements are required to be applied i.e., at the following
two levels:
(1) Consolidated (Group) level: A bank shall apply LEF at the consolidated group
level, after consolidating the assets and liabilities of its subsidiaries / joint ventures /
associates (including overseas operations through bank’s branches), excluding those
engaged in insurance and any non-financial activities. The exposures of all entities within
the banking group that are under regulatory scope of consolidation shall be considered
and the aggregate of such exposures shall be compared with the banking group’s eligible
consolidated capital base.
(2) Solo level: A bank shall apply LEF at the standalone level also (including overseas
operations through branches), which should measure the exposures to a counterparty
based on its standalone capital strength and risk profile.
B. Scope of Counterparties and Exemptions
8. Under the LEF, a bank’s exposure to all its counterparties and groups of connected
counterparties, excluding the exposures listed below, will be considered for exposure limits.
The exposures that are exempted from the LEF for a bank are listed below:
(1) exposures to the Government of India and State Governments which are eligible for
zero percent Risk Weight under the Reserve Bank of India (Commercial Banks –
Prudential Norms on Capital Adequacy) Directions, 2025;
(2) exposures to the RBI;
(3) exposures where the principal and interest are fully guaranteed by the Government
of India;
(4) exposures secured by financial instruments issued by the Government of India, to
the extent that the eligibility criteria for recognition of the credit risk mitigation (CRM) are
met in terms of paragraphs 37 to 41;
(5) exposures to foreign sovereigns or their central banks that are:
(i) subject to a zero percent risk weight under the Reserve Bank of India (Commercial
Banks – Prudential Norms on Capital Adequacy) Directions, 2025; and
9

(ii) denominated in the domestic currency of that sovereign and met out of resources
of the same currency.
(6) intra-day interbank exposures;
(7) intra-group exposures (as governed by Chapter VI of these Directions);
15[Explanation: Exposure of a foreign bank (operating in India as a branch) to its Head
Office (HO), or to a branch of its HO in any jurisdiction, shall not fall under this exclusion,
and the counterparty limits applicable for its HO exposures in terms of paragraph 84 of
these Directions, shall apply to such exposures in aggregate.]
(8) borrowers, to whom limits are authorised for food credit;
(9) clearing activities related exposures to Qualifying Central Counterparties (QCCPs),
as detailed in paragraphs 73 to 78 of this Direction; and
(10) contribution to deposits / funds maintained with NABARD, NHB, SIDBI, MUDRA
Ltd., or any other entity specified by RBI, on account of shortfall in achievement of targets
for priority sector lending;
9. Where two (or more) entities that are outside the scope of the sovereign exemption are
controlled by or are economically dependent on an entity that falls within the scope of the
sovereign exemption [paragraphs 8(1) and 8(2)], and are otherwise not connected, those
entities will not be deemed to constitute a group of connected counterparties.
10. However, a bank’s exposure to an exempted entity which is hedged by a credit
derivative shall be treated as an exposure to the counterparty providing the credit protection
notwithstanding the fact that the original exposure is exempted.
11. All exempted exposures shall be reported by a bank as required under regulatory
reporting specified in paragraph 14, if these exposures meet the criteria for definition of a
‘Large Exposure’ as per paragraph 4(6).
12. Lending under Consortium Arrangements: The exposure limits shall also be
applicable to lending under Consortium / Multiple Banking / Syndication Arrangements.
13. Bills discounted under Letter of Credit (LC): In cases where the bills discounting
/ purchasing / negotiating bank and LC issuing bank are different entities, bills purchased /
discounted / negotiated under LC (where the payment to the beneficiary is not made ‘under
reserve'), will be treated as an exposure on the LC issuing bank and not on the third party
15 Inserted with effect from April 01, 2026 consequent to the Reserve Bank of India (Commercial Banks - Concentration
Risk Management) Amendment Directions, 2025 dated December 04, 2025.
10

/ borrower. However, in cases where the bills discounting / purchasing / negotiating bank
and LC issuing bank are part of the same bank, i.e. where LC is issued by the Head Office
or branch of the same bank, then the exposure should be taken on the third party / borrower
and not on the LC issuing bank. In the case of negotiations ‘under reserve', the exposure
should be treated as on the borrower.
C. Reporting
14. A bank shall report its large exposure to the RBI, Department of Supervision, Central
Office, (DOS, CO), as per the reporting template given in Annex – I. The reporting, inter-
alia, shall include the following:
(1) all exposures, measured as specified in paragraphs 32 to 85 of this Chapter with
values equal to or above 10 percent of the bank’s eligible capital (i.e., meeting the
definition of a large exposure as per paragraph 4(6));
(2) all other exposures, measured as specified in paragraphs 32 to 85 of this Chapter
without the effect of the CRM, with values equal to or above 10 percent of the bank’s
eligible capital base;
(3) all the exempted exposures (except intra-day inter-bank exposures) with values
equal to or above 10 percent of the bank’s eligible capital base; and
(4) 20 largest exposures included in the scope of application, irrespective of the values
of these exposures relative to the bank’s eligible capital base.
D. The Large Exposure limits
D.1 Single Counterparty
15. The sum of all the exposure values of a bank to a single counterparty shall not be
higher than 20 percent of the bank’s available eligible capital base at all times.
In exceptional cases, the Board of the bank may allow an additional five percent
exposure of the bank’s available eligible capital base. The bank shall lay down a
Board approved policy in this regard.
D.2 Group of Connected Counterparties:
16. The sum of all the exposure values of a bank to a group of connected counterparties
(as defined in paragraphs 19 to 31) shall not be higher than 25 percent of the bank’s
available eligible capital base at all times.
11

17. The exposures shall be measured as specified in paragraphs 32 to 85 of these
Directions. It may be noted that the LE limits will be modulated in case of certain
counterparties as mentioned in paragraphs 73 to 85 of these Directions.
18. Any breach of the LE limits prescribed in paragraphs 15 and 16 above shall be under
exceptional conditions beyond the control of the bank, and shall be reported to the RBI
(DOS, CO) immediately and rapidly rectified.
E. Definition of Connected counterparties
19. In some cases, a bank may have exposures to a group of counterparties with specific
relationships or dependencies such that, were one of the counterparties to fail, all of the
counterparties would very likely fail. A group of this sort, referred to in this Chapter as a
group of connected counterparties, shall be treated as a single counterparty. In this case,
the sum of the bank’s exposures to all the individual entities included within a group of
connected counterparties is subject to the large exposure limit, as mentioned at paragraph
16, and to the regulatory reporting requirements as specified above.
20. Two or more natural or legal persons shall be deemed to be a group of connected
counterparties if at least one of the following criteria is satisfied:
(1) Control relationship Criteria: where one of the counterparties, directly or indirectly,
has control over the other(s) or the counterparties are, directly or indirectly, controlled by
a third party (a bank may or may not have exposure towards this third party).
Explanation: In case of financial problems of the controlling entity, it is highly
likely that the controlling entity could make use of its ability to extract capital and
/ or liquidity from the controlled entity, thereby weakening the financial position
of the latter. Financial problems could be transferred to the controlled entity, with
the result that both the controlling entity and the controlled entity would
experience financial problems (domino effect). From prudential perspective,
these types of clients (connected by control) form a single risk.
(2) Economic interdependence Criteria: If one of the counterparties were to
experience financial problems, in particular funding or repayment difficulties, the
other(s), as a result, would also be likely to encounter funding or repayment difficulties.
21. A bank shall assess the relationship amongst counterparties with reference to
paragraphs 20(1) and 20(2) in order to establish the existence of a group of connected
counterparties. In assessing whether there is a control relationship between counterparties,
the bank shall automatically consider that the control relationship criterion
12

[paragraph 20(1)] is satisfied if one entity owns more than 50 percent of the voting rights of
the other entity. In addition, the bank shall assess connectedness between counterparties
based on control using the following evidences:
(1) voting agreements (e.g., control of a majority of voting rights pursuant to an
agreement with other shareholders);
(2) significant influence on the appointment or dismissal of an entity’s administrative,
management or supervisory body, such as the right to appoint or remove a majority of
members in those bodies, or the fact that a majority of members have been appointed
solely as a result of the exercise of an individual entity’s voting rights;
(3) significant influence on senior management, e.g., an entity has the power, pursuant
to a contract or otherwise, to exercise a controlling influence over the management or
policies of another entity (e.g., through consent rights over key decisions, to decide on
the strategy or direct the activities of an entity, to decide on crucial transactions such as
transfer of profit or loss); and
(4) the above criteria may also be assessed with respect to a common third party (such
as holding company), irrespective of whether the bank has an exposure to that entity or
not.
22. A bank is also expected to refer to criteria specified in the extant accounting
standards for further qualitative guidance when determining control.
23. While determining control relationship, a bank shall also examine cases where
clients have common owners, shareholders or managers; for example, horizontal groups
where an undertaking is related to one or more other undertakings because they all have
the same shareholder structure without a single controlling shareholder or because they
are managed on a unified basis. This management may be pursuant to a contract
concluded between the undertakings, or to provisions in the memoranda or articles of
association of those undertakings, or if the administrative management or supervisory
bodies of the undertaking and of one or more other undertakings consist, for the major part,
of the same persons.
24. Where control has been established based on any of the above criteria, a bank may
still demonstrate to the RBI in exceptional cases (e.g., existence of control between
counterparties due to specific circumstances and corporate governance safeguards) that
such control does not necessarily result in the entities concerned constituting a group of
connected counterparties.
13

Explanation: For example, in specific cases where a special purpose entity (SPE) that is
controlled by another client (e.g. an originator) is fully ring-fenced and bankruptcy remote
(i.e., arrangements exist to the effect that assets of SPE are not available to lenders of
parent undertaking in the event of insolvency of the parent undertaking) – so that there is
no possible channel of contagion. Hence, no single risk exists between the SPE and the
controlling parent entity.
25. In establishing connectedness based on economic interdependence, a bank shall
consider, at a minimum, the following criteria:
(1) where 50 percent or more of one counterparty's gross receipts or gross expenditures
(on an annual basis) is derived from transactions with the other counterparty;
(2) where one counterparty has fully or partly guaranteed the exposure of the other
counterparty, or is liable by other means, and the exposure is so significant that the
guarantor is likely to default if a claim occurs;
(3) where a significant part of one counterparty’s production / output is sold to another
counterparty, which cannot easily be replaced by other customers;
(4) when the expected source of funds to repay the loans of both counterparties is the
same and neither counterparty has another independent source of income from which
the loan may be serviced and fully repaid;
(5) where it is likely that the financial problems of one counterparty would cause
difficulties for the other counterparties in terms of full and timely repayment of liabilities;
(6) where the insolvency or default of one counterparty is likely to be associated with
the insolvency or default of the other(s); and
(7) when two or more counterparties rely on the same source for the majority of their
funding and, in the event of the common provider’s default, an alternative provider cannot
be found - in this case, the funding problems of one counterparty are likely to spread to
another due to a one-way or two-way dependence on the same main funding source.
26. The illustrative examples of economic interdependence criteria are given below:
(1) Requirement: Both A and B are customers of a bank and the exposure of the bank
to each of them is more than five percent of its eligible capital base (i.e. Tier-1 capital).
(i) Where 50 percent or more of one counterparty's gross receipts or gross
expenditures (on an annual basis) is derived from transactions with the other
counterparty;
14

Illustrative Example: Company A is a commercial space provider and
company B utilises a major portion of this space and accounts for more than
50 percent of gross receipts for Counterparty A.
(ii) Where one counterparty has fully or partly guaranteed the exposure of the other
counterparty, or is liable by other means, and the exposure is so significant that the
guarantor is likely to default if a claim occurs;
Illustrative Example: Company A fully or partly guarantees the loans
undertaken by company B and the guarantee is so large that it could result in
default in payments for A if it is invoked. The bank may consider parameters
like networth, EBITDA, liquid assets, etc., to assess whether the guarantor
will be in a position to honour the claim on an on-going basis.
(iii) Where a significant part of one counterparty’s production / output is sold to another
counterparty, which cannot easily be replaced by other customers;
Illustrative Example: When a significant part of product / output / services of
Company A is sold to Company B and there are no alternate buyers who can
be approached if B fails to buy, in such a case goods may remain unsold and
could lead to default in loan repayment by A. An auto part supplier and auto
manufacturing firm could be part of the same economically dependent group
based on this criteria. For deciding if the criteria would be applicable to the
counterparties under consideration, the bank may use financial criteria like
unsold inventory leading to operating loss / default in repayment as well as
subjective criteria like ability of the seller to find alternate buyer / market, R&D
capability of the seller, etc.
(iv) When the expected source of funds to repay the loans of both counterparties is the
same and neither counterparty has another independent source of income from
which the loan may be serviced and fully repaid;
Illustrative Example: Two auto component manufacturers i.e. company A and
company B are suppliers to a commercial vehicle manufacturer i.e. company
C. Source of funds for repayment of loans taken by A and B is dependent on
sales to C. In this case, A and B are connected to each other based on the
criteria of economic interdependence. Important factors to consider would be
extent of dependence of A and B on C, ability of A and B to find another buyer,
etc.
15

(v) Where it is likely that the financial problems of one counterparty would cause
difficulties for the other counterparties in terms of full and timely repayment of
liabilities;
Illustrative Example: Company A supplies intermediate goods to Company C.
Company C processes these goods and then sells it to company B. In such
cases, difficulties at A could lead to difficulties for B. In such cases A and B
are economically dependent. The bank may consider factors like financial
strength of counterparty B to withstand the shock, its ability to find alternate
supplier in place of C, etc. to decide on applicability of the criteria.
(vi) Where the insolvency or default of one counterparty is likely to be associated with
the insolvency or default of the other(s);
Illustrative Example: Examples would include all such cases where
insolvency or default of one company may lead to the insolvency or default
of the other companies. The bank may use criteria such as intercorporate
liabilities, significant trade receivables, etc. to decide on applicability of the
criteria.
(vii) When two or more counterparties rely on the same source for the majority of their
funding and, in the event of the common provider's default, an alternative provider
cannot be found - in this case, the funding problems of one counterparty are likely
to spread to another due to a one-way or two-way dependence on the same main
funding source;
Illustrative Example: Company A and Company B rely on the same non-bank
source for their funding requirements and may not have access to alternative
sources of funds. In such cases, difficulties at common source could lead to
difficulties at both the companies and thus these companies are
interconnected based on economic interdependence. Important factors to
consider would be strength of A and B to decide alternate source of funds,
likelihood of failure of the non-bank source, etc.
(2) Economic interdependence with two different entities: If an entity (C) is
economically dependent on two (or more) other entities (A and B) then payment difficulty
of any one of the entities (A or B) may cause payment difficulties to dependent entity (C).
Thus, C needs to be added in two different groups (A and C; B and C).
16

Since exposure to C is considered as single risk for two separate groups, it does
not amount to double counting of exposure of C.
27. There may, however, be circumstances where some of these criteria do not
automatically imply an economic dependence that results in two or more counterparties
being connected.
Provided that the bank can demonstrate that a counterparty which is economically
closely related to another counterparty may overcome financial difficulties, or even the
second counterparty’s default, by finding alternative business partners or funding
sources within an appropriate time period, the bank does not need to combine these
counterparties to form a group of connected counterparties.
28. In order to avoid cases where a thorough investigation of economic
interdependencies will not be proportionate to the size of the exposures, a bank is expected
to identify possible connected counterparties on the basis of economic interdependence in
all cases where the sum of all exposures to one individual counterparty exceeds five
percent of the eligible capital base, and not in other cases.
29. Relation between interconnectedness through control and
interconnectedness through economic dependency: Group of counterparties based on
control and economic interdependence shall be assessed separately. However, there may
be situations where the two types of dependencies are interlinked and could therefore exist
within one group of connected counterparties in such a way that all relevant clients
constitute a single risk. Risk of contagion is present irrespective of type of connectedness
(i.e. control or economic interdependence) between counterparties. The chain of contagion
leading to possible default of all entities concerned is the relevant factor for the grouping
and needs to be assessed in each individual case.
30. The following examples provide illustrations for formulation of groups in case of one-
way dependency and two-way dependencies.
17

(1) One way Dependency: Consider A controls A1 and A2, and B controls B1, and B1
is economically dependent on A2 (one-way dependency only i.e. financial difficulties at
A2 could impact B1 but not vice versa). In this case, B1 should be part of two separate
groups of A and B.
(i) Three different groups of (a) A, A1, A2, (b) B, B1, (c) A2, B1, may not be sufficient
as financial difficulties of A2 is likely to cause difficulties for B1 also which is
economically dependent on A2 (which in turn is dependent on A).
(2) Two Way Dependency: Consider that A2 and B1 have two-way economic
dependency i.e. both are economically dependent on each other, which means that
financial difficulty at either entity could impact the other entity.
(i) Downstream Contagion: Downstream contagion should be assumed when an
entity is economically dependent on another entity and is itself the head of a ‘control
group’. If the other entity is part of a group of connected clients, the control group
of the economically dependent entity should then be included in the group of
connected counterparties to which the economic dependency relationship exists.
18

To overcome its own pending payment difficulties, the economically dependent
entity is likely to withdraw resources from controlled entities, thus extending the risk
of contagion downstream.
Consider A controls A1 and A2, and B controls B1, and B1 controls B2 and B3.
Further, consider B1 has one-way economic dependency on A2. If A2 faces
financial difficulty, it may impact B1 adversely, which then is likely to withdraw
resources from its controlled entities B2 and B3.
Grouping requirements:
(ii) Upstream Contagion: On the other hand, upstream contagion of entities that
control the economically dependent entity should be assumed only when the
controlling entity is also economically dependent on the entity that constitutes the
economic link between the two controlling groups.
For instance, in the above example of downstream contagion, if B1 is so important
to B that in a sense B is also dependent on B1, then contagion at A could also
spread to B, through A→A2→B1→B and all these entities would form a single
group.
19

(iii) Limitations in formulating groups of connected counterparties: If a bank is not
having exposure to all the entities, it may be difficult to accurately form group of
connected counterparties. Such groups shall be formed on best efforts basis and
the bank should take reasonable steps to collect and use relevant information; this
includes publicly available information (e.g. annual financial statements),
information beyond institutions’ clients and also soft information that typically exists
at the level of individual loan officers and relationship managers. If there are
interconnections among entities that are not clients of the bank, it may be difficult
for the bank to formulate correct groupings. However, the bank should incorporate
any information that may be available to it publicly or through other clients or
entities outside its clientele.
For instance, in illustration shown below, if a bank has exposure to A and B5 only,
then it may be difficult to formulate correct groupings.
31. The bank shall frame a Board-approved policy for determining connectedness using
the criteria mentioned above. The policies are subject to supervisory scrutiny.
20

F. Values of exposures
F.1 General measurement principles
32. Under LEF, an exposure to a counterparty shall constitute both on and off-balance
sheet exposures included in either the banking or trading book and instruments with
counterparty credit risk.
F.2 Exposure values under the LEF
33. Banking book on-balance sheet non-derivative assets: The exposure value is
defined as the accounting value of the exposure (net of specific provisions and value
adjustments). As an alternative, a bank may consider the exposure value gross of specific
provisions and value adjustments.
34. Banking book and trading book OTC derivatives (and any other instrument
with counterparty credit risk): The exposure value for instruments which give rise to
counterparty credit risk and are not securities financing transactions, should be determined
as per the RBI’s extant instructions for the counterparty credit risk contained in Reserve
Bank of India (Commercial Banks – Prudential Norms on Capital Adequacy) Directions,
2025.
35. Securities financing transactions (SFTs): A bank shall use the method they
currently use for calculating its risk-based capital requirements against SFTs.
36. Banking book ‘traditional’ off-balance sheet commitments: Off-balance sheet
items will be converted into credit exposure equivalents through the use of credit conversion
factors (CCFs) by applying the CCFs set out for the Standardised Approach for credit risk
for risk-based capital requirements, with a floor of 10 percent.
F.3 Eligible CRM techniques
37. Eligible CRM techniques for LEF purposes are those that meet the minimum
requirements and eligibility criteria for the recognition of unfunded credit protection and
financial collateral that qualify as eligible financial collateral under the Standardised
Approach for credit risk for risk-based capital requirement purposes.
Explanation: Unfunded credit protection refers collectively to credit derivatives and
guarantees described in (The standardised approach – credit risk mitigation) the Reserve
Bank of India (Commercial Banks – Prudential Norms on Capital Adequacy) Directions,
2025.
21

38. Other forms of collaterals that are only eligible under the Internal-Ratings based
(IRB) Approach (receivables, commercial and residential real estate, and other collateral)
are not eligible to reduce exposure values for LEF purposes.
39. A bank shall recognise an eligible CRM technique in the calculation of an exposure
whenever it has used this technique to calculate the risk-based capital requirements,
provided it meets the conditions for recognition under the LEF.
40. Treatment of maturity mismatches in CRM: In accordance with provisions set out
in the Reserve Bank of India (Commercial Banks – Prudential Norms on Capital Adequacy)
Directions, 2025, hedges with maturity mismatches shall be recognised only when their
original maturities are equal to or greater than one year and the residual maturity of a hedge
is not less than three months.
41. If there is a maturity mismatch in respect of credit risk mitigants (collateral, on-
balance sheet netting, guarantees and credit derivatives) recognised in the risk-based
capital requirement, the adjustment of the credit protection for the purpose of calculating
large exposures shall be determined using the same approach as in the risk-based capital
requirement mentioned in the Reserve Bank of India (Commercial Banks – Prudential
Norms on Capital Adequacy) Directions, 2025.
42. On-balance sheet netting: Where a bank has in place legally enforceable netting
arrangements for loans and deposits, it may calculate the exposure values for LE purposes
according to the calculation it uses for capital requirements purposes – i.e., on the basis of
net credit exposures subject to the conditions set out in the approach to on-balance sheet
netting in the risk-based capital requirement mentioned in the Reserve Bank of India
(Commercial Banks – Prudential Norms on Capital Adequacy) Directions, 2025.
43. Indian branches of foreign banks
(1) 16[The Indian branches of foreign banks shall be permitted to reckon cash /
unencumbered approved securities, the source of which is interest-free funds from Head
Office or remittable surplus retained in Indian books (reserves), held with RBI under
Section 11(2)(b)(i) of the Banking Regulation Act,1949 (‘BR Act’) as CRM, for offsetting
any exposure (including those not arising from non-centrally cleared derivative
transactions) to the HO or overseas branches of the HO, for the calculation of LEF limit,
subject to the following conditions]:
16 Amended with effect from April 01, 2026 consequent to the Reserve Bank of India (Commercial Banks - Concentration
Risk Management) Amendment Directions, 2025 dated December 04, 2025.
22

(i) The amount so held shall be over and above the other regulatory and statutory
requirements and shall be certified by the statutory auditors.
(ii) The amount so held shall not be included in regulatory capital (i.e., no double
counting of the fund placed under Section 11(2)(b)(i) of BR Act as both capital and
CRM). Accordingly, while assessing the capital adequacy of a bank, the amount
will form part of regulatory adjustments made to Common Equity Tier 1 Capital.
(iii) The bank shall furnish an undertaking as on March 31 every year to the RBI (DOS,
CO) that the balance reckoned as CRM for the purpose will be maintained on a
continuous basis.
(iv) The CRM shall be compliant with the principles / conditions prescribed the Reserve
Bank of India (Commercial Banks – Prudential Norms on Capital Adequacy)
Directions, 2025.
(2) The amount held under Section 11(2)(b)(i) of the BR Act and earmarked as CRM
shall be disclosed by way of a note in Schedule 1: Capital to the Balance Sheet as
outlined in Reserve Bank of India (Commercial Banks – Financial Statements:
Presentation and Disclosures) Directions, 2025:
17[“An amount of ₹… (previous year: ₹…. ) out of the amount held as deposit under
Section 11(2) of the Banking Regulation Act, 1949 has been earmarked as credit
risk mitigation (CRM) for offsetting of exposures to Head Office (including overseas
branches of Head Office), and is not reckoned for regulatory capital and other
statutory requirements, if any.” ]
(3) Excess amount over and above the CRM requirements shall be permitted to be
withdrawn subject to certification by the Statutory Auditor and approval of the RBI (DOS).
The onus of compliance with the LEF limit at all times shall be on the bank.
(4) A foreign bank shall be permitted to exclude derivative contracts executed prior to
April 1, 2019 while computing the derivative exposures on its Head Office (including
overseas branches).
F.4 Recognition of CRM techniques in reduction of original exposure
17 Amended with effect from April 01, 2026 consequent to the Reserve Bank of India (Commercial Banks - Concentration
Risk Management) Amendment Directions, 2025 dated December 04, 2025.
23

44. Under the LEF, a bank may reduce the value of the exposure to the original
counterparty by the amount of the eligible CRM technique (except for cases mentioned in
paragraph 47 below) recognised for risk-based capital requirements purposes.
45. This recognised amount is:
(1) the value of the protected portion in the case of unfunded credit protection;
(2) the value of the collateral as recognized in calculation of the counterparty credit risk
exposure value for any instruments with counterparty credit risk, such as OTC
derivatives; and
(3) the value of the collateral adjusted after applying the required haircuts, in the case
of financial collateral. The haircuts used to reduce the collateral amount are the
supervisory haircuts under the comprehensive approach as specified in the Reserve
Bank of India (Commercial Banks – Prudential Norms on Capital Adequacy) Directions,
2025.
F.5 Recognition of exposures to CRM providers
46. Where a bank reduces its exposure to the original counterparty on account of an
eligible CRM instrument provided by another counterparty (CRM provider) with respect to
that exposure, it shall also recognise an exposure to the CRM provider. The amount
assigned to the CRM provider will be the amount by which the exposure to the original
counterparty is reduced (except in the cases defined in paragraph 47).
Note: Any CRM instrument (e.g. SBLC / BG from Head Office / other overseas branch)
from which CRM benefits like shifting of exposure / risk weights, etc., are not derived, may
not be counted as an exposure on the CRM provider. This proviso will also apply to non-
fund based credit facilities provided to a person resident outside India i.e., the exposure
can be reckoned on the person resident outside India instead of treating it as an exposure
on Head Office / other overseas branch, provided the transaction is otherwise compliant
with Foreign Exchange Management (Guarantees) Regulations, 2000 (FEMA 8). The
exposures thus shifted to a person resident outside India, will attract a minimum risk weight
of 150 percent.
47. When the credit protection takes the form of a credit default swap (CDS) and either
the CDS provider or the referenced entity is not a financial entity, the amount to be assigned
to the credit protection provider is not the amount by which the exposure to the original
counterparty is reduced but will be equal to the counterparty credit risk exposure value
calculated according to methodology prescribed in the Reserve Bank of India (Commercial
24

Banks – Prudential Norms on Capital Adequacy) Directions, 2025. For the purpose of this
paragraph, financial entities comprise:
(1) Regulated financial institutions, defined as a parent and its subsidiaries where any
substantial legal entity in the consolidated group is supervised by a regulator that
imposes prudential requirements consistent with international norms. These include, but
are not limited to, prudentially regulated insurance companies, broker / dealers, banks;
and
(2) Unregulated financial institutions, defined as legal entities whose main business
includes: the management of financial assets, lending, factoring, leasing, provision of
credit enhancements, securitisation, investments, financial custody, central counterparty
services, proprietary trading and other financial services activities identified by
supervisors.
F.6 Calculation of exposure value for Trading Book positions
48. A bank shall add any exposures to a counterparty arising in the trading book to any
other exposures to that counterparty that lie in the banking book to calculate its total
exposure to that counterparty. The exposures considered here correspond to concentration
risk associated with the default of a single counterparty for exposures included in the trading
book. Therefore, the bank’s exposures to financial instruments issued by counterparties
not exempted under this Chapter shall be governed by the LE limit, but concentrations in a
particular commodity or currency will not be.
49. The exposure value of straight debt instruments and equities shall be equal to the
market value of the exposure as provided in the Reserve Bank of India (Commercial Banks
– Classification, Valuation and Operation of Investment Portfolio) Directions, 2025.
50. Instruments such as swaps, futures, forwards and credit derivatives shall be
converted into positions following the risk-based capital requirements mentioned in the
Reserve Bank of India (Commercial Banks – Prudential Norms on Capital Adequacy)
Directions, 2025. These instruments should be decomposed into their individual legs. Only
transaction legs representing a bank’s exposures to the counterparty within the scope of
the LEF should be considered for calculating the bank’s total exposure to that counterparty.
Explanation:
(1) CDS is the only credit derivative allowed under RBI’s extant guidelines and banks
do not have direct exposures to the equity derivatives. The restrictions on dealing with
certain type of instruments, assets and derivatives etc., which are currently in place shall
25

continue to be applicable even if the guidelines contained in these Directions contains
references to the same.
(2) A future on stock X, for example, is decomposed into a long position in stock X and
a short position in a risk-free interest rate exposure in the respective funding currency,
or a typical interest rate swap is represented by a long position in a fixed and a short
position in a floating interest rate exposure or vice versa.
51. In the case of credit derivatives that represent sold protection, the exposure will be
to the referenced name, and it will be the amount due in case the respective referenced
name triggers the instrument, minus the absolute value of the credit protection.
Explanation: In the case that the market value of the credit derivative is positive from the
perspective of the protection seller, such a positive market value shall be added to the
exposure of the protection seller to the protection buyer (counterparty credit risk; see
paragraph 34). Such a situation could typically occur if the present value of already agreed
but not yet paid periodic premiums exceeds the absolute market value of the credit
protection.
52. In the case of credit-linked notes (CLNs), the protection seller bank shall be required
to consider its positions both in the bond of the note issuer and in the underlying referenced
by the note. Currently, the issuance of CLNs by banks in India are not permitted under the
extant RBI guidelines. The measures of exposure values of options (primarily meant for
credit and equity options, where permitted) under this Chapter differ from the exposure
values used for risk-based capital requirements. The exposure value of option under this
Chapter shall be based on the change(s) in option prices that would result from a default of
the respective underlying instrument. The exposure value for a simple long call option
would therefore be its market value and for a short put option would be equal to the strike
price of the option minus its market value. In the case of short call or long put options, a
default of the underlying would lead to a profit (i.e., a negative exposure) instead of a loss,
resulting in an exposure of the option’s market value in the former case and equal the strike
price of the option minus its market value in the latter case. The resulting positions in all
cases should be aggregated with those from other exposures. After aggregation, negative
net exposures shall be treated as zero.
53. Exposure values of a bank’s investments in transactions (i.e., index positions,
securitisations, hedge funds or investment funds) shall be calculated applying the same
rules as for similar instruments in the banking book (see paragraphs 63 to 70).
26

F.7 Offsetting long and short positions in the trading book
54. Offsetting between long and short positions in the same issue: A bank may
offset long and short positions in the same issue (two issues are defined as the same if the
issuer, coupon, currency and maturity are identical). Consequently, the bank may consider
a net position in a specific issue for the purpose of calculating its exposure to a particular
counterparty.
55. Offsetting between long and short positions in different issues: Positions in
different issues from the same counterparty may be offset only when the short position is
junior to the long position, or if the positions are of the same seniority.
56. Similarly, for positions hedged by credit derivatives, the hedge may be recognised
provided the underlying of the hedge and the position hedged fulfil the provision of
paragraph 55 (the short position is junior or of equivalent security to the long position).
57. In order to determine the relative seniority of positions, securities may be allocated
into broad buckets of degrees of seniority (for example, ‘Equity’, ‘Subordinated Debt’, and
‘Senior Debt’).
58. If a bank finds it excessively burdensome to allocate securities to different buckets
based on relative seniority, it shall not recognise offsetting of long and short positions in
different issues relating to the same counterparty in calculating exposures.
59. Offsetting short positions in the trading book against long positions in the
banking book: Netting across the banking and trading books is not permitted.
60. Net short positions after offsetting: When the result of the offsetting is a net short
position with a single counterparty, this net exposure may not be considered as an
exposure for the purposes of LEF.
G. Treatment of specific exposure types
61. The ensuing paragraphs cover exposures for which a specific treatment is deemed
necessary.
G.1 Interbank Exposures
62. The interbank exposures, except intra-day interbank exposures, shall be subject to
the large exposure limit of 25 percent of a bank’s Tier 1 capital (also refer to paragraphs 82
to 85). In stressed circumstances, the RBI may accept a breach of an interbank limit ex
post, in order to help ensure stability in the interbank market.
27

G.2 Collective Investment Undertakings (CIUs), securitisation vehicles and other
structures - adoption of ‘Look Through Approach’ (LTA)
63. There are cases when a structure lies between a bank and its exposures, that is, the
bank invests in structures which themselves have exposures to assets underlying the
structures (hereafter referred to as the ‘underlying assets’). Such structures include funds
(such as mutual funds, venture capital funds, alternative investment funds), securitisations
and other structures (such as investment in security receipts, real estate investment trusts,
infrastructure investment trusts) with underlying assets. The bank shall assign such
exposure amount, i.e., the amount invested in a particular structure, to specific
counterparties of the underlying assets following the LTA described below:
(1) Look-Through Approach - a flow chart
(2) Look-Through Approach - An Illustrative example
(i) Bank’s eligible capital base: 1000
(ii) Corpus of structure: 500
(iii) Bank’s investment in structure: 100 (which is 10 percent of eligible capital base i.e.
more than 0.25 percent of eligible capital base)
(iv) Exposure values as per look-through approach:
28

Investment of Bank's exposure Bank's other
structure in that to underlying direct / indirect Total exposure
underlying through exposure to to underlying
structure underlying
as as as
as percent percent percent
percent of of of
Amount Amount Amount Amount
of eligible eligible eligible
corpus capital capital capital
base base base
Underlying 1 125 25.00% 25 2.50% 200 20.00% 225 22.50%
Underlying 2 10 20.00% 20 2.00% 150 15.00% 170 17.00%
Underlying 3 90 18.00% 18 1.80% 100 10.00% 118 11.80%
Underlying 4 75 15.00% 15 1.50% 80 8.00% 95 9.50%
Underlying 5 50 10.00% 10 1.00% 70 7.00% 80 8.00%
Underlying 6 30 6.00% 6 0.60% 50 5.00% 56 5.60%
Underlying 7 20 4.00% 4 0.40% 100 10.00% 104 10.40%
Underlying 8 10 2.00% 2 0.20% 150 15.00% 152 15.20%
(i) Note:
(a) Exposure to underlying 8 (which is less than 0.25 percent of eligible capital base)
may be counted as exposure on structure itself. Consequently, for underlying 8
total exposure to underlying will be 15.00 percent or 15.20 percent at the option
of the bank.
(b) Had the bank been not able to identify underlying exposures, entire exposure to
the structure (i.e. 100, which is greater than 0.25 percent of eligible capital base)
would be exposure on ‘unknown client’. All such unknown clients would be
treated as a single counterparty and single counterparty limit would apply on
aggregate exposure to all such unknown clients.
64. The bank may assign the exposure amount to the structure itself, defined as a
distinct counterparty, if it can demonstrate that the bank’s exposure amount to each
underlying asset of the structure is smaller than 0.25 percent of its eligible capital base,
considering only those exposure to underlying assets that result from the investment in the
structure itself and using the exposure value calculated according to paragraphs 69 and
70. In this case, a bank may not look through the structure to identify the underlying assets.
65. The bank shall look through the structure to identify those underlying assets for
which the underlying exposure value is equal to or above 0.25 percent of its eligible capital
base. In this case, the counterparty corresponding to each of the underlying assets shall
be identified so that these underlying exposures can be added to any other direct or indirect
29

exposure to the same counterparty. The bank’s exposure amount to the underlying assets
that are below 0.25 percent of the bank’s eligible capital base may be assigned to the
structure itself (i.e. partial look-through is permitted).
66. If a bank is unable to identify the underlying assets of a structure:
(1) Where the total amount of the bank’s exposures to a structure does not exceed 0.25
percent of its eligible capital base, it shall assign the total exposure amount to the
structure itself, as a distinct counterparty.
(2) Otherwise (i.e., if the exposure to the structure equals or exceeds 0.25 percent of its
eligible capital base), it shall assign this total exposure amount to the ‘unknown client’.
The large exposure limit shall apply on the aggregate of all such exposures to ‘unknown
clients’ as if they are a single counterparty.
67. Where the LTA is not required (paragraph 64), a bank shall nevertheless be able to
demonstrate that regulatory arbitrage considerations have not influenced the decision
whether to look through or not – e.g. that the bank has not circumvented the LE limit by
investing in several individually immaterial transactions with identical underlying assets.
68. If LTA need not be applied, a bank’s exposure to the structure shall be the nominal
amount it invests in the structure.
69. Any structure where all investors rank pari passu (e.g., CIU): When the LTA is
required according to the paragraphs above, the exposure value assigned to a counterparty
is equal to the pro rata share that the bank holds in the structure multiplied by the value of
the underlying asset in the structure. Thus, a bank holding a ₹1 investment in a structure,
which invests in 20 assets each with a value of ₹5, shall assign an exposure of ₹0.05 to
each of the counterparties. An exposure to such counterparty shall be added to any other
direct or indirect exposures the bank has to that counterparty.
70. Any structure with different seniority levels among investors (e.g.
securitisation vehicles): When the LTA (in terms of paragraphs above) is required for an
investment in a structure with different levels of seniority, the exposure value to a
counterparty should be measured for each tranche within the structure, assuming a pro
rata distribution of losses amongst investors in a single tranche. To compute the exposure
value to the underlying asset, a bank shall:
(1) first, consider the lower of the value of the tranche in which the bank invests and the
nominal value of each underlying asset included in the underlying portfolio of assets; and
30

(2) second, apply the pro rata share of the bank’s investment in the tranche to the value
determined in the first step above.
H. Identification of additional risks
71. While taking exposures to structures, a bank should identify such third parties which
may constitute an additional risk factor, and which are inherent in the structure itself rather
than in the underlying assets. Such a third party could be a risk factor for more than one
structure that a bank invests in. Examples of roles played by third parties include originator,
fund manager, liquidity provider and credit protection provider. RBI as a part of its pillar 2
supervisory review and evaluation process will look into this aspect and if required specify
a specific course of action which may either include reduction in exposure or raising of
additional capital.
72. The bank may consider multiple third parties to be potential drivers of additional risk.
In this case, the bank shall assign the exposure resulting from the investment in the relevant
structures to each of the third parties.
I. Exposures to and among certain specific counterparties
I.1 Exposures to Central Counterparties
73. A bank’s exposures to QCCPs related to clearing activities shall be exempted from
the LEF. However, these exposures shall be subject to the regulatory reporting
requirements as defined in paragraph 14.
74. In the case of non-QCCPs, a bank shall measure its exposure as a sum of both the
clearing exposures described in paragraph 76 and the non-clearing exposures described
in paragraph 78, and the same shall be subject to the LE limit of 25 percent of the eligible
capital base.
75. The concept of connected counterparties described in paragraphs 19 to 31 shall not
apply in the context of exposures to CCPs that are specifically related to clearing activities.
I.1.1 Calculation of exposures related to clearing activities
76. A bank shall identify exposures to a CCP related to clearing activities and sum
together these exposures. Exposures related to clearing activities are listed in the table
below together with the exposure value to be used:
Trade exposures The exposure value of trade exposures shall be
calculated using the exposure measures prescribed in
31

other parts of this framework for the respective type of
exposures.
Segregated initial margin The exposure value is 0.
Explanation: When the initial margin (IM) posted is
bankruptcy-remote from the CCP – in the sense that it is
segregated from the CCP’s own accounts, e.g., when the
IM is held by a third-party custodian – this amount cannot
be lost by the bank if the CCP defaults; therefore, the IM
posted by the bank can be exempted from the large
exposure limit.
Non-segregated initial margin The exposure value is the nominal amount of initial
margin posted.
Pre-funded default fund Nominal amount of the funded contribution
contributions
Unfunded default fund The exposure value is 0
contributions
77. Regarding exposures subject to clearing services (the bank acting as a clearing
member or being a client of a clearing member), the bank shall determine the counterparty
to which exposures should be assigned by applying the provisions of the risk-based capital
requirements.
I.1.2 Other exposures
78. Other types of exposures that are not directly related to clearing services provided
by the CCP, such as equity stake funding facilities, credit facilities, guarantees etc., shall
be measured according to the rules set out in these Directions, as for any other type of
counterparty. These exposures shall be added together and be subjected to the LE limit of
25 percent of the eligible capital base
Provided that, if equity stakes in the CCP are deducted from the capital on which the
large exposure limit is based, these shall not be included as exposure to the CCP.
I.2 Exposures to NBFCs
I.2.1 Exposure Ceilings proposed under LEF
79. Exposure to an NBFC excluding gold loan company: A bank’s exposure to a
single NBFC will be restricted to 20 percent of its eligible capital base. However, based on
32

the risk perception, more stringent exposure limits in respect of certain categories of NBFCs
may be considered.
80. Exposure to an NBFC predominantly engaged in lending against collateral of
gold jewellery: A bank’s exposure to a single NBFC which is predominantly engaged in
lending against collateral of gold jewellery (hereafter referred to as ‘gold loans’) i.e. such
loans comprising 50 percent or more of its financial assets, shall not exceed 7.5 percent of
the bank’s capital funds (Tier I plus Tier II Capital). However, this exposure ceiling may go
up by 5 percent, i.e., up to 12.5 percent of a bank’s capital funds if the additional exposure
is on account of funds on-lent by such NBFCs to the infrastructure sector.
81. Exposure to connected NBFCs: A bank’s exposure to a group of connected
NBFCs or group of connected counterparties having NBFCs in the group will be restricted
to 25 percent of its Tier I Capital.
I.3 Large exposures rules for global systemically important banks (G-SIBs) and
domestic systemically important banks (D-SIBs)
82. The LE limit applied to a G-SIB’s exposure to another G-SIB is set at 15 percent of
the eligible capital base.
83. The LE limit of a non G-SIB in India to a G-SIB in India or overseas will be 20 percent
of the eligible capital base.
84. For above paragraphs, the limit applies to G-SIBs as identified by the Basel
Committee and published annually by the FSB. When a bank becomes a G-SIB, it shall
apply the 15 percent exposure limit to another G-SIB within 12 months from the date of
becoming G-SIB, which is the same time frame within which a bank that has become a G-
SIB would need to satisfy its higher loss absorbency capital requirement. Similarly, when a
counterparty bank becomes G-SIB, the bank shall apply limits as indicated in paragraph 82
or 83, as applicable, within 12 months from the date of counterparty bank becoming G-SIB.
For the purpose of computing exposure limits under LEF, Indian branches of foreign G-
SIBs will not be considered as GSIBs. 18[Accordingly, for Indian branches of foreign G-SIBs,
exposure limit on their head office (including other overseas branches of head office) and
other G-SIBs will be 20 percent of eligible capital base and exposure limit on any other
bank (i.e. not G-SIB) will be 25 percent of eligible capital base. Similarly, for Indian branches
of foreign non-GSIBs, exposure limit on their head office (including other overseas
18 Amended with effect from April 01, 2026 consequent to the Reserve Bank of India (Commercial Banks - Concentration
Risk Management) Amendment Directions, 2025 dated December 04, 2025.
33

branches of head office) and other non-GSIBs will be 25 percent of eligible capital base
and exposure limit on a G-SIB will be 20 percent of eligible capital base.]
19[Explanation: The exposures arising from transactions between an Indian branch of a
foreign bank and its HO (or any of the branches of HO) that are cleared through a central
counterparty or otherwise, must always be calculated on a gross basis by the Indian
branch.]
85. The RBI has issued the Framework for dealing with Domestic Systemically Important
Banks (D-SIBs) on July 22, 2014 and discloses names of the banks classified as D-SIBs
on an annual basis. There is no separate exposure limit applicable to D-SIBs and they will
continue to be governed by interbank exposure limits under the LEF.
19 Inserted with effect from April 01, 2026 consequent to the Reserve Bank of India (Commercial Banks - Concentration
Risk Management) Amendment Directions, 2025 dated December 04, 2025.
34

Chapter IV - Enhancing Credit Supply for Large Borrowers through Market
Mechanism
20[A. *****
86. *****
B. *****
87. *****
88. *****]
20 Deleted with effect from January 01, 2026 vide Reserve Bank of India (Commercial Banks - Concentration Risk
Management) Amendment Directions, 2025 dated December 04, 2025.
35

Chapter V - Exposure Norms
A. Exposure to Industry and certain Sectors
A.1 Internal Exposure Limits
A.1.1 Fixing of Sectoral Limits
89. In addition to limiting exposures to a single borrower or a group of borrowers, a bank
shall consider fixing internal limits for aggregate commitments to specific sectors, e.g.
textiles, jute, tea, etc. to ensure diversified sectoral exposure. These sectoral limits shall be
fixed based on the bank’s assessment of sectoral performance and associated risk
perceptions. The bank shall review and revise these limits periodically, as deemed
appropriate.
90. A bank shall have Board approved limits in respect of various sub-segments under
consumer credit as may be considered necessary by the Boards as part of prudent risk
management. In particular, limits shall be prescribed for all unsecured consumer credit
exposures. The limits so fixed shall be strictly adhered to and monitored on an ongoing
basis by the Risk Management Committee.
91. All top-up loans extended by a bank against movable assets which are inherently
depreciating in nature, such as vehicles, shall be treated as unsecured loans for credit
appraisal, prudential limits and exposure purposes.
A.1.2 Exposure to NBFC Sector
92. A bank may also consider fixing internal limits for its aggregate exposure to all
NBFCs put together.
93. The bank should have an internal sub-limit on its aggregate exposures to all NBFCs,
having gold loans to the extent of 50 percent or more of their total financial assets, taken
together. This sub-limit should be within the internal limit, where fixed by the bank for its
aggregate exposure to all NBFCs put together as mentioned in paragraph 92.
A.1.3 Exposure to Real Estate
94. The bank shall be guided by the Reserve Bank of India (Commercial Banks – Credit
Facilities) Directions, 2025.
A.1.4 Bank’s Exposure to Capital Markets – Rationalisation of Norms
A.1.4.1 Components of Capital Market Exposure (CME)
36

95. 21[*****]
22[
95A. CME of a bank shall include both its direct exposures and indirect exposures (both
fund based, and non-fund based), including the following:
(1) Investment Exposures: direct investment in equity and preference shares;
convertible bonds; convertible debentures; units of non-debt mutual fund schemes; units
of REITs and InvITs and units of Alternative Investment Funds (AIFs).
(2) Credit Exposures:
(i) Advances to individuals for investment in shares (including IPOs / FPOs / ESOPs),
convertible bonds, convertible debentures, and units of non debt mutual fund
schemes;
(ii) advances for any other purposes where shares or convertible bonds or convertible
debentures or units of non-debt mutual fund schemes are taken as primary
security;
(iii) advances for any other purposes to the extent secured by collateral of shares,
convertible bonds, convertible debentures or units of non-debt mutual fund
schemes where the advances are extended on the principal strength of such
collateral;
(iv) all credit facilities to CMIs in terms of Reserve Bank of India (Commercial Banks
– Credit Facilities) Directions, 2025;
(v) acquisition finance, including acquisition by overseas branches/ subsidiaries of
Indian banks;
(vi) financing to non-debt mutual fund schemes;
Provided that, intraday limits to non-debt mutual fund schemes, which are
permitted to borrow intra-day only to the extent of guaranteed receivables due on
the same day on account of (a) maturity proceeds of Government Securities, T-
Bills, SDL or interest from G-Sec and SDLs held by such mutual funds, or (b)
maturity proceeds of TREPS from CCIL, shall not be reckoned as CME.
21 Deleted with effect from July 01, 2026 consequent to Reserve Bank of India (Commercial Banks - Concentration Risk
Management) Amendment Directions, 2026 (Revised) dated March 30, 2026
22 Inserted with effect from July 01, 2026 consequent to Reserve Bank of India (Commercial Banks - Concentration Risk
Management) Amendment Directions, 2026 (Revised) dated March 30, 2026
37

(vii) bridge finance to companies for meeting upfront contribution to the equity of new
companies being set up as permitted in terms of Reserve Bank of India
(Commercial Banks – Credit Facilities) Directions, 2025;
(viii) underwriting commitments taken up by the banks in respect of primary issue of
shares or convertible bonds or convertible debentures or bonds where end use
is acquisition finance or units of non-debt mutual fund schemes;
(ix) Irrevocable Payment Commitments (IPCs) issued by custodian banks on behalf
of its clients in favour of clearing corporations of stock exchanges;
(x) trade exposures of a bank, which is acting as a clearing member in equity
derivative and commodity derivative transactions, to its client, including funded
initial margins placed on behalf of clients, where permissible.
]
A.1.4.2 Limits on a bank’s Exposure to Capital Markets
A.1.4.2.1 Statutory limit on shareholding in companies
96. In terms of Section 19(2) of the Banking Regulation Act, 1949, no banking company
shall hold shares in any company, whether as pledgee, mortgagee or absolute owner, of
an amount exceeding 30 percent of the paid-up share capital of that company or 30 percent
of its own paid-up share capital and reserves, whichever is less, except as provided in sub-
section (1) of Section 19 of the Act. Shares held in demat form should also be included for
the purpose of determining the exposure limit. This is an aggregate holding limit for each
company. A bank shall strictly adhere to these statutory provisions while granting any
advance against shares, underwriting any issue of shares, or acquiring any shares on
investment account or even in lieu of debt of any company.
A.1.4.2.2 Regulatory Limit
A.1.4.2.2.1 23[*****
97. *****
A.1.4.2.2.2 *****
98. *****]
24[
23 Deleted with effect from July 01, 2026 consequent to Reserve Bank of India (Commercial Banks - Concentration Risk
Management) Amendment Directions, 2026 (Revised) dated March 30, 2026
24 Inserted with effect from July 01, 2026 consequent to Reserve Bank of India (Commercial Banks - Concentration Risk
Management) Amendment Directions, 2026 (Revised) dated March 30, 2026
38

98A. Aggregate CME of a bank shall be subject to the following prudential ceilings (‘CME
ceilings’), subject to the exclusions and qualifications as specified in subsequent
paragraphs, to be maintained on an ongoing basis:
(1) The aggregate CME of a bank, on both solo and consolidated basis, shall not
exceed 40 per cent of its eligible capital base.
(2) A bank’s direct capital market exposure, consisting of investment exposures as
per paragraph 95A, shall not exceed 20 per cent of eligible capital base on both
solo and consolidated basis.
(3) A bank’s aggregate exposure to acquisition finance shall not exceed 20 per cent
of its eligible capital base, within the aggregate CME ceiling of 40 per cent, both
on a solo and consolidated basis.
(4) Within its aggregate CME limit, a bank shall have a separate sub-limit for intra-
day exposure to a single counterparty, as well as an aggregate limit for all intra-
day exposures.
]
99. 25[The above-mentioned ceilings (as prescribed in paragraph 98A) are the maximum
permissible and a bank is free to adopt a lower ceiling, keeping in view its overall risk profile
and corporate strategy. A bank shall adhere to the ceilings on an ongoing basis.]
100. 26[The acquisition of shares due to conversion of debt into equity during a
restructuring process in terms of the Reserve Bank of India (Commercial Banks –
Resolution of Stressed Assets) Directions, 2025, or as part of corporate insolvency
resolution process under the Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code, 2016, will be exempted
from regulatory ceilings / restrictions on Capital Market Exposures, investment in Para-
Banking activities and intra-group exposure. However, these will require reporting to RBI
(DoS, CO every month along with the regular DSB Return on Asset Quality) and disclosure
by banks in the Notes to Accounts in Annual Financial Statements. Nonetheless, banks
shall comply with the provisions of Section 19(2) of the Banking Regulation Act, 1949.]
A.1.4.3 Items excluded from Capital Market Exposure of a bank
101. 27[*****]
25 Modified with effect from July 01, 2026 consequent to Reserve Bank of India (Commercial Banks - Concentration Risk
Management) Amendment Directions, 2026 (Revised) dated March 30, 2026
26 Modified with effect from July 01, 2026 consequent to Reserve Bank of India (Commercial Banks - Concentration Risk
Management) Amendment Directions, 2026 (Revised) dated March 30, 2026
27 Deleted with effect from July 01, 2026 consequent to Reserve Bank of India (Commercial Banks - Concentration Risk
Management) Amendment Directions, 2026 (Revised) dated March 30, 2026
39

28[
101A. The following exposures of a bank shall be excluded from the CME computation:
(1) Investment in own subsidiaries, joint ventures, and sponsored Regional Rural
Banks (RRBs);
(2) investments in shares, convertible debentures and convertible bonds issued
by institutions forming critical financial infrastructure as enumerated in Annex
II;
Provided that after listing, any additional exposures taken in the entities
covered in (1) and (2) shall form part of the CME.
(3) portion of acquisition finance which is used for refinancing the debt of the
target company as a part of acquisition;
(4) investment in Additional Tier I and Tier II debt instruments issued by other
banks and All India Financial Institutions regulated by RBI;
(5) investment in Certificate of Deposits (CDs) of other banks;
(6) investment in, and loan against, preference shares without voting rights;
(7) a bank’s own and their subsidiaries’ underwriting commitments in respect of
issuance of shares or convertible bonds or convertible debentures or units of
non-debt mutual fund schemes, through the book running process up to 70
per cent of the credit equivalent amount;
(8) promoters shares in the SPV of an infrastructure project on which security
charge is created in favour of the lending bank for infrastructure project
lending;
(9) exposure to brokers other than in the commodity and equity segments;
(10) exposure to CMIs for market making predominantly in debt instruments.]
A.1.4.4 Computation of exposure
102. 29[*****
103. *****
28 Inserted with effect from July 01, 2026 consequent to Reserve Bank of India (Commercial Banks - Concentration Risk
Management) Amendment Directions, 2026 (Revised) dated March 30, 2026
29 Deleted with effect from July 01, 2026 consequent to Reserve Bank of India (Commercial Banks - Concentration Risk
Management) Amendment Directions, 2026 (Revised) dated March 30, 2026
40

104. *****
105. *****
A.1.4.5 *****
106. *****
A.1.4.6 *****
107. *****]
30[
107A. For the purpose of CME, the value of various exposures shall be computed as under:
(1) Direct investment shall be calculated at its cost price.
(2) Credit exposures, both fund-based and non-fund-based, shall be reckoned for
CME with reference to sanctioned limits or outstanding, whichever is higher.
However, in the case of fully drawn term loans, where there is no scope for re-
drawal of any portion of the sanctioned limit, banks may reckon the outstanding
as the exposure.
Provided that a bank’s exposures for the purpose of CME can be calculated at
30 per cent of the intraday limit extended for meeting shortfall arising on account
of settlement timing difference in centrally cleared trades placed on behalf of
clients, provided the borrower has expected receivables from a QCCP fully
covering such intra-day drawdowns. However, outstanding, if any, at the end of
day shall be fully reckoned as CME.
(3) Exposure in respect of equity and commodity derivatives shall be calculated as
per the Reserve Bank of India (Commercial Banks- Prudential Norms on Capital
Adequacy) Directions, 2025.
(4) Exposures in respect of IPCs issued shall be included for the purpose of CME
as under:
(i) Intraday exposures under T+1 settlement cycle - 30 per cent of the net
settlement obligation;
(ii) overnight IPC exposure under T+2 settlement cycle - 50 per cent of the
net settlement obligation;
30 Inserted with effect from July 01, 2026 consequent to Reserve Bank of India (Commercial Banks - Concentration Risk
Management) Amendment Directions, 2026 (Revised) dated March 30, 2026
41

Explanation 1: Net settlement obligation shall be calculated as the sum of all
purchase obligations (pay-in of funds) less the sum of all sale obligations
(pay-out of funds) for a specific client within the same settlement cycle.
Explanation 2: The above netting treatment shall be only permitted where
both the buy and sell transactions are cleared through the same Clearing
Corporation; and the bank maintains an absolute and irrevocable lien over
the payout securities resulting from the buy-side of the netting set until the
client has fulfilled its funding obligations.
107B. The exposure computed as per paragraph 107A above may be offset by cash and
Governments securities, subject to conditions and haircuts as prescribed in the Reserve
Bank of India (Commercial Banks - Prudential Norms on Capital Adequacy) Directions,
2025, for arriving at the CME.]
A.1.4.7 Exposure to Indian Joint Ventures / Wholly-owned Subsidiaries Abroad and
Overseas Step-down Subsidiaries of Indian Corporates
108. A bank is allowed to extend credit / non-credit facilities (viz. letters of credit and
guarantees) to Indian Joint Ventures / Wholly-owned Subsidiaries abroad and step-down
subsidiaries which are wholly owned by the overseas subsidiaries of Indian Corporates.
The bank is also permitted to provide at its discretion, buyer's credit / acceptance finance
to overseas parties for facilitating export of goods & services from India. The above
exposure will, however, be subject to a limit of 20 percent of the bank’s unimpaired capital
funds (Tier I and Tier II capital) and would be subject to the conditions laid down in this
regard in the Reserve Bank of India (Commercial Banks – Credit Facilities) Directions,
2025.
B. 31[*****
109. *****]
B.1 Cross holding of capital among banks / Financial Institutions
110. A bank shall be guided by the Reserve Bank of India (Commercial Banks –
Prudential Norms on Capital Adequacy) Directions, 2025.
B.2 Prudential Regulation for Banks’ Investments:
111. Investment by a bank in a subsidiary or in a financial services company not being a
subsidiary or a non-financial services company shall be subject to the conditions specified
31 Deleted with effect from July 01, 2026 consequent to Reserve Bank of India (Commercial Banks - Concentration Risk
Management) Amendment Directions, 2026 (Revised) dated March 30, 2026
42

in the Reserve Bank of India (Commercial Banks – Undertaking of Financial Services)
Directions, 2025.
C. 'Safety Net' Schemes for Public Issues of Shares, Debentures, etc.
C.1 ‘Safety Net' Schemes
112. A bank or its subsidiary shall not offer ‘Safety Net’ or any such facilities, which would
entail commitments to buy the securities from the investors at a pre-determined price
during a stipulated period, irrespective of the prevailing market price.
C.2 Provision of buy back facilities
113. If a bank or its subsidiary provides a buy back arrangement to small investors
subscribing to new issues, such an arrangement shall not provide commitments to buy the
securities at pre-determined prices. Prices should be determined from time to time, keeping
in view the prevailing stock market prices for the securities. Commitments should also be
limited to a moderate proportion of the total issue in terms of the amount and should not
exceed 25 percent of the owned funds of the bank / its subsidiary. These commitments
shall also be subject to the overall exposure limits which have been or may be prescribed
from time to time.
43

Chapter VI - Prudential Limits on Intra-Group Transactions and Exposure
115. 32[Exposure value shall be computed as per paragraphs 32 to 78 of these Directions.
However, exposure on account of equity and other regulatory capital instruments should
be excluded while computing exposure to group entities.
116. A bank shall adhere to the following intra-group exposure limits:
(1) Single Group Entity Exposure
(i) five percent of eligible capital base in case of non-financial companies (e.g., entities
undertaking non-financial activities to provide support (IT services, back-office
support, etc.) to financial entities of the group) and unregulated financial services
companies; and
(ii) 10 percent of eligible capital base in case of regulated financial services
companies.
(2) Aggregate Group Exposure
(i) 10 percent of eligible capital base in case of all non-financial companies and
unregulated financial services companies taken together; and
(ii) 20 percent of eligible capital base in case of the group i.e. all group entities
(financial and non-financial) taken together.]
33[Provided that the existing intragroup exposures, including committed lines (if any),
in breach of the aforesaid limits shall be brought within the prescribed limits within
six months from the date of issuance of the Reserve Bank of India (Commercial
Banks - Concentration Risk Management) Amendment Directions, 2025 dated
December 4, 2025.]
A. Intra-group Exposures Exempted from the Prudential Limits
117. The following intra-group exposures would be excluded from the stipulated limits:
(1) A bank’s exposure to other banks / financial institutions in the group in form of equity
and other capital instruments are exempted from the limits stipulated in paragraphs
116(1) and 116(2). However, the instructions issued vide the Reserve Bank of India
(Commercial Banks – Undertaking of Financial Services) Directions, 2025 and the
Reserve Bank of India (Commercial Banks – Prudential Norms on Capital Adequacy)
32 Amended with effect from April 01, 2026 consequent to the Reserve Bank of India (Commercial Banks - Concentration
Risk Management) Amendment Directions, 2025 dated December 04, 2025.
33 Inserted with effect from April 01, 2026 consequent to the Reserve Bank of India (Commercial Banks - Concentration
Risk Management) Amendment Directions, 2025 dated December 04, 2025.
44

Directions, 2025, shall continue to apply on such exposure, subject to the prohibitions
stipulated at paragraph 118.
(2) Inter-bank exposures among banks in the group operating in India. However,
prudential limits in respect of outstanding borrowing transactions in call / notice money
market for a bank shall continue to be governed by Master Direction - Reserve Bank of
India (Call, Notice and Term Money Markets) Directions, 2021. For outstanding lending
transactions in the call / notice / term money market, the limits shall be decided by the
bank with the approval of its Board within the large exposure limits prescribed for single
counterparty / group of connected counterparties under LEF.
(3) Letters of Comfort issued by parent bank in favour of overseas group entities to meet
regulatory requirements.
(4) Acquisition of shares due to conversion of debt to equity during a restructuring
process subject to compliance with the provisions of Section 19(2) of the Banking
Regulation Act, 1949, as stipulated under Reserve Bank of India (Commercial Banks –
Resolution of Stressed Assets) Directions, 2025.
B. Prohibited Exposures
118. Wherever a bank has been set-up under a NOFHC structure,
(1) The bank cannot take any credit or investments (including investments in the equity
/ debt capital instruments) exposure on NOFHC, its Promoters / Promoter Group entities
or individuals associated with the Promoter Group.
(2) The bank cannot invest in the equity / debt capital instruments of any financial
entities under the NOFHC.
C. Monitoring and Management of Intra-Group Transactions and Exposures (ITEs)
119. A bank shall put in place a Board-approved comprehensive policy on monitoring and
management of ITEs. The policy should lay down effective systems and processes to
identify, assess and report risk concentrations and material ITEs. While framing such policy,
the Board shall take into consideration the risks posed to the bank on a standalone basis
as a result of such intra-group activities and ensure that exposure to group entities are
appropriately captured in measures of the bank’s exposures to group entities.
120. The policy should be reviewed at least annually. The policy should, at a minimum,
include:
45

(1) System of regular review and reporting of material ITEs to the Board for facilitating
clear understanding of the ITEs undertaken and the risks, if any, emanating there-from;
(2) A requirement that the bank should address risks arising from ITEs as strictly as it
would address its risk exposures to a third party / non-group entity;
(3) Requirement that terms and conditions and credit standards of intra-group
transactions are substantially the same, as those prevailing at the time for comparable
transactions with or involving third party / non-group entities;
(4) The policy should specify the methodology to be followed for transfer pricing
mechanism which could be applied to ensure the compliance of the arm’s length
principle;
(5) Procedures for resolving any conflict of interest arising from intra-group transactions
and exposures;
(6) Requirements relating to the transparency of third-party dealings associated with
group entities. As a general rule, the bank should not undertake third-party dealings with
the purpose of supporting the business of group entities unless they are carried out at
arm’s length and in accordance with transfer pricing policy;
(7) The bank’s material intra-group transactions (both fund-based and non-fund based)
should be examined by its internal auditors and the same should be checked by statutory
auditors on a sample basis to ascertain that intra-group transactions undertaken:
(i) comply with arm’s length principle,
(ii) are not detrimental to the bank’s interests,
(iii) are not meant for transferring the low quality or lowly rated assets,
(iv) are not a conduit for inappropriate transfer of capital / income to group entities, and
(v) if resulting in breach of intra-group exposure norms, are promptly reported to the
RBI in terms of paragraph 128 and
(8) Mechanism to ensure that ITEs do not lead to violation / circumvention of any
regulatory, statutory or taxation laws.
121. Where the terms and conditions applying to a bank’s dealings with group entities are
inconsistent with the benchmarks set for the similarly rated third party / non-group entities
as required under paragraph 120(3), they shall be put up to the Board by the sanctioning
authority with justifications. The same may be made available to the RBI at the time of
inspection or whenever required.
46

122. A bank shall not enter into cross-default clauses whereby a default by a group entity
on an obligation (whether financial or otherwise) is deemed to trigger a default of the bank
on its obligations.
123. The bank should not buy / sell low quality asset (i.e., asset overdue / out of order or
classified as NPA by the bank or by RBI or a restructured asset whose terms have been
renegotiated or compromised due to the deteriorating financial condition of the borrower)
from / to group entities except when they are done in accordance with the extant
instructions of RBI, such as sale of Non-Performing Assets (NPAs) to Asset Reconstruction
Companies, etc. Further, a low-quality asset should not be accepted as collateral for a loan
or extension of credit to, or guarantee, acceptance, or letter of credit issued on behalf of
the group entity. The bank shall also ensure that the transactions in low-quality assets with
group entities, whether regulated or unregulated, are not done for the purpose of hiding
losses or window dressing of balance sheets.
124. The bank shall ensure that it has adequate systems and controls in place for
identifying, monitoring, managing and reviewing exposures arising from ITEs. The RBI may
require a bank to put in place additional internal controls and a more robust risk monitoring,
managing, reporting and review mechanism on ITEs.
D. Arrangements for Providing Support within the Group
125. A bank may provide support to its group entities so long as such support is
undertaken in accordance with the prudential requirements set out in above paragraphs in
relation to the policies governing bank’s dealings with group entities. Further, the bank
should take ample and cautious measures to avoid giving any impression of its direct or
indirect support to group entities unless there are formal legal arrangements in place
providing for such support.
126. While assessing funding needs (especially under stressed situations), the bank
should account for any funding or liquidity commitment provided to group entities (e.g. in
the form of explicit guarantees or funding lines to be drawn in times of need) and prepare
for any withdrawal of funding against those commitments by group entities. The bank shall
be guided by the Reserve Bank of India (Commercial Banks – Asset Liability Management)
Directions, 2025 in this regard. The bank shall also analyse how the liquidity positions of
group entities may affect its own liquidity, either through direct financial impact or through
contagion when those entities are faced with liquidity crunch. Where there is reliance on
funding support among group entities, it should take into account legal, regulatory or other
47

limitations that may restrict group entities access to liquidity from it and vice versa in case
of need.
127. The bank should establish internal limits on intra-group liquidity support to mitigate
the risk of contagion from other group entities when these entities are under liquidity stress.
It may put in place group-wide contingency funding plans, liquidity cushions and diversified
funding to help group entities when liquidity problems in the group arise in line with the
guidelines referred to in paragraph 126.
48

E. Reporting
128. A bank shall submit the following data / information to the RBI (DOS, CO) in the
format and at the frequency prescribed by the DoS.
(1) The bank shall prepare and submit a list of the group entities. The list shall include
all group entities established and operating in India and those overseas entities with
which it has material transactions (threshold for ‘material’ transaction would be ₹10 crore
for fund-based transactions and ₹25 crore for non-fund based transaction) during last
three financial years. Any exclusion and / or inclusion of group entities should be reported
at the earliest.
(2) The bank shall submit the details of intra-group support arrangements / agreements
(e.g. a specific guarantee of the obligations of an entity in the group or a letter of comfort).
(3) The bank shall operate within the stipulated limits on an ongoing basis and report its
intra-group exposures.
(4) If the intra-group exposures, either at the single entity level or at the aggregate level,
exceed the prudential limits, the same should be reported at the earliest as also in the
prescribed returns along with the reasons for breach of limits. In such situations, the
bank cannot undertake any further intra-group exposure (at the entity or aggregate level,
as the case may be) until it is brought down within the limit. Further, the bank, on
satisfactory grounds, may be allowed an appropriate timeline within which it should
comply with the stipulated limits. Failure to comply with the intra-group exposure limit
within the given timeline would result in deduction of excess exposure amount from
Common Equity Tier 1 (CET1) capital of bank until the limits are restored 34[(If the limits
are breached on account of mark-to-market values of derivatives position, the excess
exposure would not be deducted from CET1 capital for a period of three months from
the date of breach.)] The frequent breaches may also lead to imposition of penalties on
the bank by the RBI.
34 Amended with effect from April 01, 2026 consequent to the Reserve Bank of India (Commercial Banks - Concentration
Risk Management) Amendment Directions, 2025 dated December 04, 2025.
49

Chapter VII – Management of Country Risk Exposure
129. A bank shall refer to the Reserve Bank of India (Commercial Banks – Credit Risk
Management) Directions, 2025 for detailed instructions on Country Risk Management.
Exposure limits
130. The Board of a bank shall set country exposure limits in relation to the bank’s
regulatory capital (Tier I + Tier II) with sub-limits, if considered necessary for products,
branches, maturity etc. The basis for setting the limits for the country / category shall be left
to the discretion of the banks’ Boards. The country exposure limits set by the Board shall
be reviewed periodically, and in any case, at least once a year.
131. Exposure limit for any country shall not exceed its regulatory capital, except in the
case of insignificant risk category. In respect of foreign banks, the regulatory capital shall
be the capital (Tier I + Tier II) held in their Indian books.
Explanation: The country risk ratings for this purpose are covered in the Reserve Bank
of India (Commercial Banks – Income Recognition, Asset Classification and
Provisioning) Directions, 2025.
132. A bank may also set up regional exposure limits for country groups, at the discretion
of its Board. The Board shall decide on the basis for grouping of countries and also lay
down the guidelines regarding all aspects of such regional exposure limits.
133. Reserve Bank may, if it becomes necessary, prescribe a prudential aggregate
country exposure limit for the higher risk categories.
Exposure Values
134. Banks should reckon both funded and non-funded exposures from their domestic as
well as foreign branches while identifying, measuring, monitoring and controlling country
risks. In the case of foreign banks operating in India, the scope would be confined to their
branches in India. An illustrative list of funded and non-funded exposures is furnished
below:
Funded Exposures Non Funded Exposures
• Cash balances • Letters of Credit
• Bank balances • Committed lines of credit
• Deposit placements • Guarantees
50

• Investments • Performance bonds, bid bonds,
• Loans and advances warranties.
• Trade credits/receivables • Confirmation of LCs issued by
• Overdraft in Vostro Account foreign banks.
• Remittances honoured under • Commitments undertaken
drawing arrangement against the counter-guarantees of
• Other monetary assets foreign banks.
135. Banks should take into account indirect country risk where its net funded exposure
to a country is one per cent or more of its total assets. The bank is required to reckon such
country risk exposures for measuring, monitoring and controlling with that country risk. For
example, exposures to a domestic commercial borrower with a large economic
dependence on a certain country may be considered as subject to indirect country risk.
Indirect exposures may be reckoned at 50% of the exposure for the purpose of these
guidelines.
136. Exposures should be computed on a net basis i.e., gross exposure ‘minus’
collaterals, guarantees, insurance etc. Netting may be permitted for cash collaterals, bank
guarantees and credit insurance available in/ issued by countries in a lower risk category
than the country on which exposure is assumed.
51

Chapter VIII - Prudential Limits for Inter-Bank Liabilities (IBL)
137. The regulatory instructions on prudential limits for inter-bank liabilities are covered
in Reserve Bank of India (Commercial Banks – Asset Liability Management) Directions,
2025.
52

Chapter IX - Repeal and other provisions
A. Repeal and saving
138. With the issue of these Directions, the existing Directions, instructions, and
guidelines relating to Concentration Risk Management as applicable to Commercial Banks
stand repealed, as communicated vide circular DOR.RRC.REC.302/33-01-010/2025-26
dated November 28, 2025. The Directions, instructions and guidelines repealed prior to the
issuance of these Directions shall continue to remain repealed.
139. Notwithstanding such repeal, any action taken or purported to have been taken, or
initiated under the repealed Directions, instructions, or guidelines shall continue to be
governed by the provisions thereof. All approvals or acknowledgments granted under these
repealed lists shall be deemed as governed by these Directions. Further, the repeal of
these directions, instructions, or guidelines shall not in any way prejudicially affect:
(1) any right, obligation or liability acquired, accrued, or incurred thereunder;
(2) any, penalty, forfeiture, or punishment incurred in respect of any contravention
committed thereunder;
(3) any investigation, legal proceeding, or remedy in respect of any such right,
privilege, obligation, liability, penalty, forfeiture, or punishment as aforesaid; and
any such investigation, legal proceedings or remedy may be instituted,
continued, or enforced and any such penalty, forfeiture or punishment may be
imposed as if those directions, instructions, or guidelines had not been repealed.
B. Application of other laws not barred
140. The provisions of these Directions shall be in addition to, and not in derogation of
the provisions of any other laws, rules, regulations or directions, for the time being in force.
C. Interpretations
141. For the purpose of giving effect to the provisions of these Directions or in order to
remove any difficulties in the application or interpretation of the provisions of these
Directions, the Reserve Bank may, if it considers necessary, issue necessary clarifications
in respect of any matter covered herein and the interpretation of any provision of these
Directions given by the Reserve Bank shall be final and binding.
(Vaibhav Chaturvedi)
Chief General Manager
53

Annex - I
Return on Large Exposures
Name of the Bank
Return for the Month
Eligible Capital base (Tier I) (₹. crore)
A. Bank’s 20 Largest Exposures to counterparties (single as well as group of
connected counterparties) irrespective of their values relative to bank’s eligible
capital base
Whether Single (S) or Exposure as
Sl Name of the Exposure
Group (G) of connected percent of
No Counterparty Amount
Counterparties Tier I Capital
1.
2.
3.
--
--
18.
19.
20.
B. Bank’s exposures with values equal to or above 10 percent of Tier I Capital
Whether Single (S) or Exposure as
Sl Name of the Exposure
Group (G) of connected percent of Tier
No. Counterparty Amount
Counterparties I Capital
1.
2.
--
n
C. Bank’s other exposures (measured without effect of CRM) with values equal to
or above 10 percent of Tier I Capital (not including exposures reported in B
already)
Whether Single (S) or Exposure as
Sl Name of the Exposure
Group (G) of connected percent of Tier
No. Counterparty Amount
Counterparties I Capital
1.
2.
--
n.

D. Bank’s exempted exposures with values equal to or above 10 percent of Tier I
Capital
Whether Single (S) or Exposure as
Sl Name of the Exposure
Group (G) of connected percent of
No. Counterparty Amount
Counterparties Tier I Capital
1.
2.
--
n.
55

Annex - II
35[List of Critical Financial Infrastructure Exempted from CME
1. IFCI Ltd.
2. Tourism Finance Corporation of India Ltd. (TFCI)
3. IFCI Venture Capital Funds Ltd. (IFCI Venture)
4. Technology Development and Information Company of India Ltd. (TDICI)
5. National Housing Bank (NHB)
6. Small Industries Development Bank of India (SIDBI)
7. National Bank for Agriculture and Rural Development (NABARD)
8. Export Import Bank of India (EXIM Bank)
9. Life Insurance Corporation of India (LIC)
10. General Insurance Corporation of India (GIC)
11. National Securities Depository Ltd. (NSDL),
12. Central Depository Services (India) Ltd. (CDSL),
13. NSE Clearing Limited (National Clearing),
14. National Stock Exchange (NSE),
15. Clearing Corporation of India Ltd. (CCIL),
16. A credit information company which has obtained Certificate of Registration from RBI
and of which the bank is a member,
17. Multi Commodity Exchange of India Ltd. (MCX),
18. National Commodity and Derivatives Exchange Ltd. (NCDEX),
19. Indian Commodity Exchange Limited (ICEX),
20. National Commodities Management Services Ltd. (NCML),
21. National Payments Corporation of India (NPCI), and
22. Bombay Stock Exchange (BSE).]
35 Substituted with effect from July 01, 2026 consequent to Reserve Bank of India (Commercial Banks - Concentration
Risk Management) Amendment Directions, 2026 (Revised) dated March 30, 2026
56