भारतीय �रज़वर् बैंक
RESERVE BANK OF INDIA
RBI/DOR/2025-26/359
DOR.ACC.REC.No.278/21.04.018/2025-26 November 28, 2025
Reserve Bank of India (Non-Banking Financial Companies – Financial
Statements: Presentation and Disclosures) Directions, 2025 (Updated as on
July 01, 2026)
Table of Contents
Chapter-I Preliminary ................................................................................................. 2
A. Short title and commencement ........................................................................ 2
B. Applicability ...................................................................................................... 2
Chapter-II Balance sheet and Profit and Loss Account .............................................. 4
A. Preparation of the balance sheet and profit and loss account ......................... 4
B. Accounting standards to be followed ............................................................... 4
C. Guidance on specific issues with respect to certain Accounting Standards ..... 4
D. Other instructions ............................................................................................. 8
Chapter-III Disclosure in Financial Statements – Notes to Accounts ......................... 9
A. General ............................................................................................................ 9
B. Presentation .................................................................................................... 9
C. Disclosure requirements ................................................................................ 10
Chapter-IV Consolidated Financial Statements ........................................................ 48
Chapter-V Repeal and other provisions ................................................................... 49
A. Repeal and saving ......................................................................................... 49
B. Application of other laws not barred ............................................................... 49
C. Interpretations ................................................................................................ 50
Annex I ..................................................................................................................... 51

In exercise of the powers conferred under sections 45L of the Reserve Bank of
India Act, 1934 and Section 3 read with section 31A and section 6 of the Factoring
Regulation Act, 2011, Sections 30A, 32 of the National Housing Bank Act, 1987 and
all other provisions / laws enabling the Reserve Bank of India (‘RBI’), RBI being
satisfied that it is necessary and expedient in the public interest so to do, hereby,
issues the Directions hereinafter specified.
Chapter-I Preliminary
A. Short title and commencement
1. These Directions shall be called the Reserve Bank of India (Non-Banking
Financial Companies – Financial Statements: Presentation and Disclosures)
Directions, 2025.
2. These Directions shall come into force with immediate effect.
B. Applicability
3. These Directions shall be applicable to following Non-Banking Financial
Companies, (hereinafter collectively referred to as ‘NBFCs’ and individually as
an NBFC), for all layers, unless specified otherwise:
(i) Deposit taking NBFC (NBFC-D) registered with the RBI under the provisions
of the RBI Act, 1934;
(ii) NBFC-Investment and Credit Company (NBFC-ICC) registered with the RBI
under the provisions of the RBI Act, 1934;
(iii) NBFC-Factor registered with the RBI under the provisions of the Factoring
Regulation Act, 2011;
(iv) NBFC-Microfinance Institution (NBFC-MFI) registered with the RBI under
the provisions of the RBI Act, 1934;
(v) NBFC- Infrastructure Finance Company (NBFC-IFC) registered with the RBI
under the provisions of the RBI Act, 1934;
(vi) Infrastructure Debt Fund (IDF) - NBFC registered with the RBI under the
provisions of the RBI Act, 1934;
(vii) Housing Finance Company (HFC) registered with the RBI under the
provisions of the NHB Act, 1987;
(viii) Core Investment Company (CIC) registered with the RBI as NBFCs under
the provisions of the RBI Act, 1934
2

4. These Directions except provisions contained in Paragraph 13 to 15 and
Paragraph 20 shall be applicable to Standalone Primary Dealer (SPD)
registered with the RBI as NBFC under the provisions of the RBI Act, 1934;
5. These Directions except provisions contained in Paragraph 20 shall be
applicable to Mortgage Guarantee Company (MGC) registered with RBI under
the scheme of Registration of Mortgage Guarantee Companies, as per layer-
wise applicability;
6. These Directions except provisions contained in Paragraph 13 to 15 and
Paragraph 20 shall be applicable to NBFC-Peer to Peer Lending Platforms
(NBFC-P2P) registered with the RBI under the provisions of the RBI Act, 1934,
subject to layer-wise applicability.
7. These Directions except provisions contained in Paragraph 13 to 15 and
Paragraph 20 shall be applicable to NBFC-Account Aggregator (NBFC-AA)
registered with the RBI under the provisions of the RBI Act, 1934, subject to
layer-wise applicability.
8. These Directions are not applicable for the following:
(i) Non-Operative Financial Holding Company (NOFHC) registered with the RBI
as NBFC under the provisions of the RBI Act, 1934;
(ii) 1[NBFC holding Certificate of Registration as ‘Type I NBFC’];
(iii) ‘NBFCs in Base layer having customer interface but not availing public
funds’.
Note: The applicability under these Directions is in line with the regulatory
structure for NBFCs as set out in Reserve Bank of India (Non-Banking Financial
Companies – Registration, Exemptions and Framework for Scale Based
Regulation) Directions, 2025.
1
Substituted with effect from July 01, 2026 vide Reserve Bank of India (Non-Banking Financial Companies – Registration,
Exemptions and Framework for Scale Based Regulation) Amendment Directions, 2026 dated April 29, 2026.
3

Chapter-II Balance sheet and Profit and Loss Account
A. Preparation of the balance sheet and profit and loss account
9. An NBFC shall prepare its balance sheet and profit and loss account, as
prescribed under the Companies Act, 2013, as on March 31 every year.
Whenever an NBFC intends to extend the date of its balance sheet, as per
provisions of the Companies Act, 2013, it shall take prior approval of the
Reserve Bank before approaching the Registrar of Companies for this purpose.
Explanation - Even in a case where RBI and the Registrar of Companies grant
extension of time, the NBFC shall furnish to RBI a proforma balance sheet
(unaudited) as on March 31 of the year and the statutory returns due on the
said date. Every NBFC shall finalise its balance sheet within a period of 3
months from the date to which it pertains.
B. Accounting standards to be followed
10. An NBFC covered by Rule 4 of the Companies (Indian Accounting Standards)
Rules, 2015, (‘Ind AS’) shall prepare its financial statements in accordance with
Ind AS notified by the Government of India and shall comply with the regulatory
guidance specified in paragraph 11 and paragraph 12 of this Master Direction.
Other NBFCs shall comply with the requirements of Accounting Standards
notified under the Companies (Accounting Standards) Rules, 2021, as
amended from time to time, in so far as they are not inconsistent with any of
Directions / Guidelines issued by RBI.
C. Guidance on specific issues with respect to certain Accounting Standards
11. An NBFC that is required to comply with Ind AS shall adhere to instructions
given in the following paragraphs. These instructions focus on the need to
ensure consistency in the application of the accounting standards in specific
areas, including asset classification and provisioning. These instructions and
guidelines relate to specific prudential aspects of Ind AS implementation by
NBFCs and are not meant to provide a comprehensive commentary on the
accounting standards or comprehensive technical interpretation of the
standards, nor intended to cover all possible situations. Accordingly, with
respect to matters not dealt in these Directions, an NBFC is required to refer to
4

the notified accounting standards, application guidance, educational material
and other clarifications issued by the Institute of Chartered Accountants of India
(ICAI).
12. The responsibility of preparing and ensuring fair presentation of the financial
statements of an NBFC vests primarily with its Board of Directors. The Reserve
Bank expects a high-quality implementation of Ind AS which will require detailed
analysis, application of judgment and detailed documentation to support
judgments.
1) Governance Framework
(i) In view of the criticality of the nature of the business model in determining
the classification of financial assets and restrictions on subsequent
reclassification, an NBFC is advised to put in place Board approved
policies that clearly articulate and document its business models and
portfolios. The NBFC shall also articulate the objectives for managing
each portfolio.
(ii) An NBFC shall frame its policy for sales out of amortised cost business
model portfolios and disclose the same in its notes to financial statements.
(iii) The Reserve Bank expects the Board of Directors to approve sound
methodologies for computation of Expected Credit Losses (ECL) that
address policies, procedures and controls for assessing and measuring
credit risk on all lending exposures, commensurate with the size,
complexity and risk profile specific to the NBFC. The parameters and
assumptions considered as well as their sensitivity to the ECL output
should be documented. An NBFC shall not make changes in the
parameters, assumptions and other aspects of its ECL model for the
purposes of profit smoothening. The rationale and justification for any
change in the ECL model shall be documented and approved by the
Board. Similarly, the rationale and basis of any adjustments to the model
output (i.e., a management overlay) shall be clearly documented and
approved by the Audit Committee of the Board (ACB). Note – An NBFC /
ARC may draw reference to ‘Guidance on Credit Risk and Accounting for
5

Expected Credit Losses’ issued by Basel Committee on Banking
Supervision (BCBS) in December 2015, which is structured around 11
principles out of which first eight principles deal with supervisory guidance
and inter-alia cover Board / Senior Management’s responsibilities,
adoption of sound methodologies for credit risk measurement, disclosure
requirements etc.
(iv) Ind AS 109 does not explicitly define default but requires entities to define
default in a manner consistent with that used for internal credit risk
management. It is recommended that the definition of default adopted for
accounting purposes is guided by the definition used for regulatory
purposes. The rationale for classification of accounts that are past due
beyond 90 days but not treated as impaired shall be clearly documented
and approved by the ACB. Further, the number of such accounts and the
total amount outstanding and the overdue amounts shall be disclosed in
the notes to the financial statements.
Note - Paragraph B5.5.37 of Ind AS 109 states that “…an entity shall
apply a default definition that is consistent with the definition used for
internal credit risk management purposes for the relevant financial
instrument and consider qualitative indicators (for example, financial
covenants) when appropriate. However, there is a rebuttable presumption
that default does not occur later than when a financial asset is 90 days
past due unless an entity has reasonable and supportable information to
demonstrate that a more lagging default criterion is more appropriate. The
definition of default used for these purposes shall be applied consistently
to all financial instruments unless information becomes available that
demonstrates that another default definition is more appropriate for a
particular financial instrument.”
(v) Regardless of the way in which the NBFC assesses significant increase in
credit risk, there is a rebuttable presumption under Ind AS 109 that the
credit risk on a financial asset has increased significantly since initial
recognition when contractual payments are more than 30 days past due.
Ind AS 109 also permits that an NBFC can rebut this presumption if it has
6

reasonable and supportable information that demonstrates that the credit
risk has not increased significantly since initial recognition even though
the contractual payments are more than 30 days past due. An NBFC
should educate its customers on the need to make payments in a timely
manner. However, in limited circumstances, where an NBFC rebuts the
presumption, it shall be done only with clear documentation of the
justification for doing so. All such cases shall be placed before the ACB.
The NBFC shall not defer the recognition of significant increase in credit
risk for any exposure that is overdue beyond 60 days.
2) Prudential Floor for Expected Credit Loss (ECL)
(i) An NBFC shall hold impairment allowances as required by Ind AS. In
parallel, the NBFC shall also maintain the asset classification and
compute provisions as per extant prudential norms on Income
Recognition, Asset Classification and Provisioning (IRACP) including
borrower / beneficiary wise classification, provisioning for standard as well
as restructured assets, NPA ageing, etc. A comparison (as per the
template provided in paragraph 21 (15) below) between provisions
required under IRACP and impairment allowances made under Ind AS
109 shall be disclosed by the NBFC in the notes to its financial statements
to provide a benchmark to it Boards, supervisors of the Reserve Bank and
other stakeholders, on the adequacy of provisioning for credit losses.
(ii) Where impairment allowance under Ind AS 109 is lower than the
provisioning required under IRACP (including standard asset
provisioning), the NBFC shall appropriate the difference from its net profit
or loss after tax to a separate ‘Impairment Reserve’. The balance in the
‘Impairment Reserve’ shall not be reckoned for regulatory capital. Further,
no withdrawals shall be permitted from this reserve without prior
permission from the Department of Supervision of the Reserve Bank.
(iii) The requirement for ‘Impairment Reserve’ may be reviewed, going
forward.
7

D. Other instructions
13. An NBFC shall separately disclose in its balance sheet the provisions made as
per the Reserve Bank’s guidelines without netting them from the income or
against the value of assets.
14. Provisions, created by an NBFC, shall be distinctly indicated under separate
heads of account as under:
(i) provisions for bad and doubtful debts; and
(ii) provisions for depreciation in investments
15. Provisions shall not be appropriated from the general provisions and loss
reserves held, if any, by the NBFC. Provisions for each year shall be debited to
the profit and loss account. The excess of provisions, if any, held under the
heads general provisions and loss reserves may be written back without
making adjustment against them.
8

Chapter-III Disclosure in Financial Statements – Notes to Accounts
A. General
16. An NBFC shall make disclosures in its financial statements in accordance with
the guidelines in these Directions, applicable accounting standards, laws and
regulations.
17. The formats for disclosures specified in this Master Direction are common
templates for all categories of NBFCs. An individual NBFC may omit those line
items / disclosures which are not applicable / not permitted or with no exposure
/ no transaction both in the current year and previous year. The disclosures
specified in this Master Direction are in addition to and not in substitution of the
disclosure requirements specified under other laws, regulations, or accounting
and financial reporting standards. More comprehensive disclosures than the
minimum required are encouraged, especially if such disclosures significantly
aid in the understanding of the financial position and performance.
18. It may be noted that mere mention of an activity, transaction or item in the
disclosure template does not imply that it is permitted, and an NBFC shall refer
to the extant statutory and regulatory requirements while determining the
permissibility or otherwise of an activity or transaction.
19. An NBFC shall disclose comparative information in respect of the previous
period for all amounts reported in the current period’s financial statements.
Further, the NBFC shall include comparative information for narrative and
descriptive information if it is relevant to understanding the current period’s
financial statements.
B. Presentation
B.1 Schedule to the balance sheet
20. An NBFC shall append to its balance sheet as prescribed under the
Companies Act, 2013, the particulars in the schedule as per format given in
Annex I.
9

C. Disclosure requirements
C.1 Disclosure requirements for all NBFCs
21. An NBFC shall make following disclosures in ‘Notes to Accounts’ to the
financial statements.
(1) Loans against gold and silver collateral
i) Details of loans extended against eligible gold and silver collateral
Loan
Average
outstanding Average Gross
ticket
Particulars As % of size LTV NPA
₹
Total ratio (%)
crore (₹ crore)
Loans
1. Opening balance of the FY
[(a)+(b)]
(a) Consumption loans
of which bullet repayment loans
(b) Income generating loans
2. New loans sanctioned and
NA
disbursed during the FY [(c)+(d)]
(c) Consumption loans NA
of which bullet repayment loans
(d) Income generating loans NA
3. Renewals sanctioned and
NA
disbursed during the FY
4. Top-up loans sanctioned and
NA
disbursed during the FY
5. Loans repaid during the FY
NA NA
[(e)+(f)]
(e) Consumption loans NA NA
of which bullet repayment loans NA NA
(f) Income generating loans NA NA
6. Non-Performing Loans
NA NA
recovered during the FY [(g) + (h)]
(g) Consumption loans NA NA
of which bullet repayment loans NA NA
(h) Income generating loans NA NA
7. Loans written off during the FY NA NA
10

Loan Average Average Gross
Particulars
outstanding ticket LTV NPA
[(i) + (j)]
(i) Consumption loans NA NA
of which bullet repayment loans NA NA
(j) Income generating loans NA NA
8. Closing balance at the end of
FY [(k) + (l)]
(k) Consumption loans
of which bullet repayment loans
(l) Income generating loans
Note:
(i) The NBFC shall be guided by the Reserve Bank of India (Non-Banking Financial Companies –
Credit Facilities) Directions, 2025, as amended from time to time.
(ii) Information may be disclosed separately for loans against gold collateral and loans against silver
collateral
(iii) Average LTV ratio is calculated as ratio of sum of LTVs of loans at the time of sanction to total
number of such loans.
ii) Details of gold and silver collateral and auctions
Sr.
Particulars
No.
Unclaimed gold or silver collateral at the end of the
(a)
financial year (in grams)
Number of loan accounts in which auctions were
(b)
conducted
(c) Total outstanding in loan accounts mentioned in (b)
Gold or silver collateral acquired during the FY due to
(d)
default of loans (in grams)
Gold or silver collateral auctioned during the FY (in
(e)
grams)
Recovery made through auctions during the FY (in ₹
(f)
crore)
(g) Recovery percentage:
(h) as % of value of gold or silver collateral
(i) as % of outstanding loan
11

Note:
(i) Weight and value of collateral to be calculated in accordance with Reserve Bank
of India (Non-Banking Financial Companies – Credit Facilities) Directions, 2025.
(ii) Unclaimed gold or silver collateral means as defined under Reserve Bank of India
(Non-Banking Financial Companies – Credit Facilities) Directions, 2025.
(iii) An NBFC shall also provide details of whether any of its sister concerns
participated in the auction.
(iv) An NBFC shall disclose in its balance sheet the percentage of loans granted
against the collateral of gold jewellery to its total assets.
(2) Disclosure related to project finance
An NBFC shall make appropriate disclosures related to project finance as
below:
Total
Number of
Sl. No Item Description outstanding
accounts
(in ₹ crore)
Projects under implementation accounts
1
at the beginning of the quarter.
Projects under implementation accounts
2
sanctioned during the quarter.
Projects under implementation accounts
3 where DCCO has been achieved during
the quarter
Projects under implementation accounts
4
at the end of the quarter. (1+2-3)
Out of ‘4’ – accounts in respect of which
resolution process involving extension in
5
original / extended DCCO, as the case
may be, has been invoked.
Out of ‘5’ – accounts in respect of
5.1 which Resolution plan has been
implemented.
Out of ‘5’ – accounts in respect of
5.2 which Resolution plan is under
implementation.
Out of ‘5’ – accounts in respect of
5.3
which Resolution plan has failed.
Out of ‘5’, accounts in respect of which
resolution process involving extension in
6 original / extended DCCO, as the case
may be, has been invoked due to
change in scope and size of the project.
12

Total
Number of
Sl. No Item Description outstanding
accounts
(in ₹ crore)
Out of ‘5’, account in respect of which
cost overrun associated with extension in
7
original / extended DCCO, as the case
may be, was funded
Out of ‘7’, accounts where SBCF
7.1 was sanctioned during financial
closure and renewed continuously
Out of ‘7’, accounts where SBCF
7.2 was not pre-sanctioned or renewed
continuously
Out of ‘4’ – accounts in respect of which
resolution process not involving
8
extension in original / extended DCCO,
as the case may be, has been invoked.
Out of ‘8’ – accounts in respect of
8.1 which Resolution plan has been
implemented.
Out of ‘8’ – accounts in respect of
8.2 which Resolution plan is under
implementation.
Out of ‘8’ – accounts in respect of
8.3
which Resolution plan has failed.
Note: This is a quarterly disclosure beginning from October 1, 2025. NBFC shall be guided by
the Reserve Bank of India (Non-Banking Financial Companies – Resolution of Stressed Assets)
Directions, 2025, as amended from time to time.
(3) Non-Fund Based (NFB) Credit Facilities:
An NBFC shall disclose the details of NFB credit facilities in the format given
below.
As at 31st As at 31st Previous Year Previous
March 20XX March 20XX Year
Secured* Unsecured Secured* Unsecured
Portion Portion Portion Portion
I Outstanding Guarantees (₹ crore)
i) In India
ii) Outside India
II Acceptances, Endorsements and other
Obligations (₹ crore)
III Other NFB Credit facilities (₹ crore)
13

As at 31st As at 31st Previous Year Previous
March 20XX March 20XX Year
* Secured portion is as defined under the Reserve Bank of India (Non-Banking Financial Companies – Credit Facilities) Directions,
2025.
Note: As regards NFB credit limits, the bank shall be guided by the Reserve Bank of India
(Non-Banking Financial Companies – Credit Facilities) Directions, 2025, as amended from time
to time. These Directions shall come into force from April 1, 2026, or from any earlier date as
decided by an NBFC as per its internal policy (“effective date”). Extension of any new NFB
facility and renewal of an existing NFB facility after the effective date, shall be governed in
terms of these Directions. All existing NFB facilities extended/ renewed till the effective date
shall be governed by the existing instructions as applicable to the respective bank.
(4) Disclosures on Co-Lending Arrangements
(a) In addition to the applicable disclosure requirements under extant
regulations, an NBFC shall also prominently disclose on their website, a list of
all active CLA partners.
(b) an NBFC shall also make appropriate disclosures in their financial
statements, under ‘Notes to Accounts’, relating to necessary details of CLAs on
an aggregate basis. The details may inter alia include quantum of CLAs,
weighted average rate of interest, fees charged / paid, broad sectors in which
CLA was made, performance of loans under CLA, details related to default loss
guarantee, if any, etc. The disclosure shall be done on quarterly/annual basis.
Note: As regards CLA, the NBFC shall be guided by the Reserve Bank of India (Non-Banking
Financial Companies – Transfer and Distribution of Credit Risk) Directions, 2025, as amended
from time to time. These Directions shall come into force from January 1, 2026, or from any
earlier date as decided by an NBFC as per its internal policy (“effective date”). Any new CLA
entered into after the effective date shall be in compliance with these Directions.
(5) Disclosures relating to securitisation
14

The originators should indicate the outstanding amount of securitised assets as
per books of the Special Purpose Entities (SPEs) and total amount of
exposures retained by the originator as on the date of balance sheet to comply
with the Minimum Retention Requirement (MRR). These figures shall be based
on the information duly certified by the SPE’s auditors obtained by the
originator from the SPE. These disclosures should be made in the format given
in the table below.
(Number / Amounts in ₹ crore)
Sl. Mar 31 Mar 31
Particulars
No. (Current Year) (Previous Year)
No of SPEs holding assets for securitisation
transactions originated by the originator (only
1.
the SPVs relating to outstanding securitisation
exposures to be reported here)
Total amount of securitised assets as per
2.
books of the SPEs
Total amount of exposures retained by the
3. originator to comply with MRR as on the date
of balance sheet
a) Off-balance sheet exposures
• First loss
• Others
b) On-balance sheet exposures
• First loss
• Others
Amount of exposures to securitisation
4.
transactions other than MRR
a) Off-balance sheet exposures
i) Exposure to own securitisations
• First loss
• Others
ii) Exposure to third party securitisations
• First loss
• Others
15

Sl. Mar 31 Mar 31
Particulars
No. (Current Year) (Previous Year)
b) On-balance sheet exposures
i) Exposure to own securitisations
• First loss
• Others
ii) Exposure to third party securitisations
• First loss
• Others
Sale consideration received for the securitised
5. assets and gain / loss on sale on account of
securitisation
Form and quantum (outstanding value) of
6. services provided by way of, liquidity support,
post-securitisation asset servicing, etc.
Performance of facility provided. Please
provide separately for each facility viz. Credit
enhancement, liquidity support, servicing
agent etc. Mention percent in bracket as of
7.
total value of facility provided.
(a) Amount paid
(b) Repayment received
(c) Outstanding amount
Average default rate of portfolios observed in (may mention
the past. Please provide breakup separately average default
8.
for each asset class i.e. RMBS, Vehicle Loans rate of previous 5
etc years)
Amount and number of additional / top up loan
given on same underlying asset. Please
9.
provide breakup separately for each asset
class i.e. RMBS, Vehicle Loans, etc.
Investor complaints
10. (a) Directly / Indirectly received and;
(b) Complaints outstanding
Note – An NBFC shall provide table separately for ‘Simple, Transparent and Comparable’
(STC) and non-STC transactions.
16

(6) Disclosure of transfer of loan exposure
A lender shall make appropriate disclosures related to the total amount of loans not
in default / stressed loans transferred and acquired to / from other entities as
prescribed below, on a quarterly basis:
(i) In respect of loans not in default that are transferred or acquired, the
disclosures should cover, inter alia, aspects such as weighted average
maturity, weighted average holding period, retention of beneficial economic
interest, coverage of tangible security coverage, and rating-wise distribution of
rated loans. Specifically, a transferor should disclose all instances where it has
agreed to replace loans transferred to transferee(s) or pay damages arising out
of any representation or warranty. The disclosures should also provide break-
up of loans transferred / acquired through assignment / novation and loan
participation.
(ii) In the case of stressed loans transferred or acquired, the following disclosures
should be made:
Details of stressed loans transferred during the year (to be made separately for
loans classified as NPA and SMA)
To Asset To other
To permitted
(all amounts in ₹ crore) Reconstruction transferees
transferees
Companies (ARCs) (please specify)
No: of accounts
Aggregate principal
outstanding of loans
transferred
Weighted average
residual tenor of the
loans transferred
Net book value of loans
transferred (at the time
of transfer)
Aggregate
consideration
Additional consideration
realized in respect of
accounts transferred in
earlier years
Details of loans acquired during the year
17

Details of stressed loans transferred during the year (to be made separately for
loans classified as NPA and SMA)
From Scheduled
Commercial Banks,
Regional Rural Bank, Co-
operative Banks, All India
Financial Institutions,
(all amounts in ₹ crore) From ARCs
Small Finance Banks and
Non-Banking Finance
Companies including
Housing Finance
Companies
Aggregate principal outstanding of
loans acquired
Aggregate consideration paid
Weighted average residual tenor of
loans acquired
The transferor(s) should also make appropriate disclosures with regard to the
quantum of excess provisions reversed to the profit and loss account on
account of sale of stressed loans. Also, the lenders should disclose the
distribution of the SRs held by them across the various categories of Recovery
Ratings assigned to such SRs by the credit rating agencies.
Note: While making disclosures in audited annual financial statements, an NBFC should
invariably provide the figures for both the current and previous year to facilitate comparison.
(7) Disclosure on restructuring of advances
(i) For non-deposit taking NBFCs with asset size less than ₹500 crore
An NBFC shall disclose information relating to number and amount of advances
restructured, and the amount of diminution in the fair value of the restructured
advances as per the format given below. The information shall be required for
advances restructured under CDR Mechanism, SME Debt Restructuring Mechanism
and other categories separately. The NBFC shall disclose the total amount
outstanding in all the accounts / facilities of borrowers whose accounts have been
restructured along with the restructured part or facility. This means even if only one
of the facilities / accounts of a borrower has been restructured, the NBFC shall also
disclose the entire outstanding amount pertaining to all the facilities / accounts of that
18

particular borrower. The disclosure format prescribed below, inter-alia, includes the
following:
i) Details of accounts restructured on a cumulative basis excluding the standard
restructured accounts which cease to attract higher provision and risk weight (if
applicable);
ii) Provisions made on restructured accounts under various categories; and
iii) Details of movement of restructured accounts.
This implies that once the higher provisions on restructured advances (classified as
standard either ab initio or on upgradation from NPA category) revert to the normal
level on account of satisfactory performance during the prescribed period, such
advances shall no longer be required to be disclosed by an NBFC as restructured
accounts in the ’Notes on Accounts’ in its Annual Balance Sheets. However, the
provision for diminution in the fair value of restructured accounts on such
restructured accounts shall continue to be maintained by the NBFC as per the
existing instructions.
Disclosure of restructured accounts
Under SME Debt
Under CDR
Type of Restructuring Restructuring Others Total
Mechanism
Mechanism
Sl. No.
Asset Classification
19
dradnatS
dradnatS-buS
luftbuoD
ssoL latoT
dradnatS
dradnatS-buS
luftbuoD
ssoL latoT
dradnatS
dradnatS-buS
luftbuoD
ssoL latoT
dradnatS
dradnatS-buS
luftbuoD
ssoL latoT
Details
No. of
borrowers
Restructured Accounts as
Amount
1 on April 1 of the FY
outstanding
(opening figures) *
Provision
thereon
No. of
borrowers
Fresh restructuring Amount
2
during the year outstanding
Provision

Under SME Debt
Under CDR
Type of Restructuring Restructuring Others Total
Mechanism
Mechanism
Sl. No.
Asset Classification
20
dradnatS
dradnatS-buS
luftbuoD
ssoL latoT
dradnatS
dradnatS-buS
luftbuoD
ssoL latoT
dradnatS
dradnatS-buS
luftbuoD
ssoL latoT
dradnatS
dradnatS-buS
luftbuoD
ssoL latoT
Details
thereon
No. of
borrowers
Upgradations to
restructured standard Amount
3
category during the outstanding
FY
Provision
thereon
Restructured standard
No. of
advances which cease to
borrowers
attract higher
provisioning and / or
additional risk weight
Amount
at the end of the FY
4
outstanding
and hence need not be
shown as restructured
standard Provision
advances at the thereon
beginning of the next
FY
No. of
borrowers
Down gradation of
Amount
5 restructured accounts
outstanding
during the FY
Provision
thereon
No. of
borrowers
Write-offs of restructured
Amount
6 accounts
outstanding
during the FY
Provision
thereon
Restructured Accounts as No. of
7
on borrowers

Under SME Debt
Under CDR
Type of Restructuring Restructuring Others Total
Mechanism
Mechanism
Sl. No.
Asset Classification
21
dradnatS
dradnatS-buS
luftbuoD
ssoL latoT
dradnatS
dradnatS-buS
luftbuoD
ssoL latoT
dradnatS
dradnatS-buS
luftbuoD
ssoL latoT
dradnatS
dradnatS-buS
luftbuoD
ssoL latoT
Details
March 31 of the FY Amount
(closing figures*) outstanding
Provision
thereon
* Excluding the figures of Standard Restructured Advances which do not attract higher provisioning or risk weight (if applicable).
(ii) Particulars of resolution plan and restructuring
An NBFC covered by the ‘Prudential Framework for Resolution of Stressed Assets’
issued vide the Reserve Bank of India (Non-Banking Financial Companies –
Resolution of Stressed Assets) Directions, 2025 shall make appropriate disclosures
in its financial statements relating to resolution plans implemented. As per the
referenced circular, acquisition of shares due to conversion of debt to equity during a
restructuring process shall be exempted from regulatory ceilings / restrictions on
Capital Market Exposures, investment in Para-Banking activities and intra-group
exposure. However, details of the same shall be disclosed by an NBFC in the ‘Notes
to Accounts’ to Annual Financial Statements.

(8) Exposure
(i) Exposure to real estate sector
(Amount in ₹ crore)
Current Previous
Category
Year Year
i) Direct exposure
a) Residential Mortgages –
Lending fully secured by mortgages on residential property that is
or will be occupied by the borrower or that is rented. Exposure
would also include non-fund based (NFB) limits.
b) Commercial Real Estate –
Lending secured by mortgages on commercial real estate (office
buildings, retail space, multipurpose commercial premises,
multifamily residential buildings, multi tenanted commercial
premises, industrial or warehouse space, hotels, land acquisition,
development and construction, etc.). Exposure would also include
non-fund based (NFB) limits.
c) Investments in Mortgage-Backed Securities (MBS) and other
securitised exposures –
i. Residential
ii. Commercial Real Estate
ii) Indirect Exposure
Fund based and non-fund-based exposures on National Housing
Bank and Housing Finance Companies.
Total Exposure to Real Estate Sector
(ii) Exposure to capital market
(Amount in ₹ crore)
Current Previous
Particulars
Year Year
i) Direct investment in equity shares, convertible
bonds, convertible debentures and units of equity
oriented mutual funds the corpus of which is not
exclusively invested in corporate debt
22

Current Previous
Particulars
Year Year
ii) Advances against shares / bonds / debentures or
other securities or on clean basis to individuals for
investment in shares (including IPOs / ESOPs),
convertible bonds, convertible debentures, and
units of equity oriented mutual funds
iii) Advances for any other purposes where shares or
convertible bonds or convertible debentures or
units of equity oriented mutual funds are taken as
primary security
iv) Advances for any other purposes to the extent
secured by the collateral security of shares or
convertible bonds or convertible debentures or
units of equity oriented mutual funds i.e. where the
primary security other than shares / convertible
bonds / convertible debentures / units of equity
oriented mutual funds does not fully cover the
advances
v) Secured and unsecured advances to stockbrokers
and guarantees issued on behalf of stockbrokers
and market makers
vi) Loans sanctioned to corporates against the
security of shares / bonds / debentures or other
securities or on clean basis for meeting promoter’s
contribution to the equity of new companies in
anticipation of raising resources
vii) Bridge loans to companies against expected
equity flows / issues
viii) Underwriting commitments taken up by the NBFC
in respect of primary issue of shares or convertible
bonds or convertible debentures or units of equity
oriented mutual funds
ix) Financing to stockbrokers for margin trading
x) All exposures to Alternative Investment Funds:
1. Category I
2. Category II
3. Category III
Total exposure to capital market
Note – An NBFC may omit those line items which are not applicable / not permitted or have nil
exposure both in current and previous year. Further, exposures against pledge of shares by
promoters of a company shall be shown separately under the respective line items.
23

(iii) Sectoral exposure
Current Year Previous Year
Percentage Percentage
Total Gross Total Gross
of Gross of Gross
Sectors Exposure NPAs Exposure NPAs
NPAs to total NPAs to total
exposure in exposure in
(₹ crore) (₹ crore) (₹ crore) (₹ crore)
that sector that sector
1. Agriculture and
Allied Activities
2. Industry
i….
ii….
Others
Total of Industry
(i+ii+…+Others)
3. Services
i…
ii…
Others
Total of Services
(i+ii+…+Others)
4. Personal Loans
i…
ii…
Others
Total of Personal
Loans
(i+ii+…+Others)
5. Others, if any
(please specify)
Note -
i. Total exposure includes on balance sheet and off - balance sheet exposure.
ii. The disclosures as above shall be based on the sector-wise and industry-wise bank credit
(SIBC) return submitted by scheduled commercial banks to the Reserve Bank and published by
Reserve Bank as ‘Sectoral Deployment of Bank Credit’.
iii. In the disclosures as above, if within a sector, exposure to a specific sub-sector / industry is
more than 10 per cent of Tier 1 Capital of an NBFC, the same shall be disclosed separately
within that sector. Further, within a sector, if exposure to specific sub-sector / industry is less
than 10 per cent of Tier 1 Capital, such exposures shall be clubbed and disclosed as “Others”
within that sector.
(iv) Intra-group exposures
24

An NBFC shall make the following disclosures for the current year with
comparatives for the previous year:
i) Total amount of intra-group exposures
ii) Total amount of top 20 intra-group exposures
iii) Percentage of intra-group exposures to total exposure of the NBFC on
borrowers/customers
(v) Unhedged foreign currency exposure
An NBFC shall disclose details of its unhedged foreign currency exposures.
Further, it shall also disclose its policies to manage currency induced risk.
(9) Related party disclosure
(Amount in ₹ crore)
Relatives Others*
Parent Key
Associate of Key
(as per Subsidiari Managem
Related s/ Managem
ownershi es ent Total
Party Joint ent
p or Personne
ventures Personne
control) l@
l@
Items Curr Prev Curr Prev Curr Prev Curr Prev Curr Prev Curr Prev Curr Prev
ent ious ent ious ent ious ent ious ent ious ent ious ent ious
Year Year Year Year Year Year Year Year Year Year Year Year Year Year
Borrowings#
Deposits#
Placement of
deposits#
Advances#
Investments#
Purchase of
fixed/other
assets
Sale of
fixed/other
assets
Interest paid
Interest
received
Others*
25

@ Disclosures for directors and relatives of directors should be made separately in separate columns
from other KMPs and relatives of other KMPs.
# The outstanding at the year end and the maximum during the year are to be disclosed.
*Specify item if total for the item is more than 5 per cent of total related party transactions. Related
parties would include trusts and other bodies in which the NBFC can directly or indirectly (through its
related parties) exert control or significant influence.
(i) Related party, in the context of the aforementioned disclosure, shall include all related parties
as per the applicable accounting standards. Further, related party shall also include following
related parties defined under Section 2(76) of the Companies Act, 2013.
i) A director or his relative;
ii) key managerial personnel or his relative;
iii) a firm, in which a director, manager or his relative is a partner;
iv) a private company in which a director or manager or his relative is a member or director;
v) a public company in which a director or manager is a director and holds along with his
relatives, more than two per cent. of its paid-up share capital;
vi) any body corporate whose Board of Directors, managing director or manager is
accustomed to act in accordance with the advice, directions or instructions of a director or
manager;
vii) any person on whose advice, directions or instructions a director or manager is
accustomed to act:
Provided that nothing in clauses (f) and (g) shall apply to the advice, directions or
instructions given in a professional capacity;
(ii) At a minimum, Key Management Personal (KMPs) shall include following key managerial
personnel as per section 2(51) of the Companies Act, 2013.
i) the Chief Executive Officer or the managing director or the manager
ii) the company secretary
iii) the whole-time director
iv) the Chief Financial Officer
v) such other officer, not more than one level below the Directors who is in whole-time
employment, designated as key managerial personnel by the Board; and
vi) such other officer as may be prescribed
(iii) Relatives of KMPs at the minimum, shall include following relatives as defined under section
2(77) of the Companies Act, 2013 and Rule 4 of the Companies (Specification of definitions
details) Rules, 2014.
i) they are members of a Hindu Undivided Family;
ii) they are husband and wife; or
iii) one person is related to the other in such manner as may be prescribed;
(iv) A person shall be deemed to be the relative of another, if he or she is related to another in the
following manner, namely:-
i) Father; Provided that the term “Father” includes step-father.
ii) Mother: Provided that the term “Mother” includes the step-mother.
iii) Son: Provided that the term “Son” includes the step-son.
26

iv) Son’s wife.
v) Daughter.
vi) Daughter’s husband.
vii) Brother: Provided that the term “Brother” includes the step-brother;
viii) Sister: Provided that the term “Sister” includes the step-sister.
2(9A) Exposures to Related Parties
Details of exposures to related parties as defined in Reserve Bank of India (Non-Banking
Financial Companies – Credit Risk Management) Directions, 2025
(Amount in ₹ crore)
Sr. Previous Current
Particulars
No. Year Year
A. Loans to Related Parties
1. Aggregate value of loans sanctioned to related parties
during the year
2. Aggregate value of outstanding loans to related parties as
on 31st March
3. Aggregate value of outstanding loans to related parties as
a proportion of total credit exposure as on 31st March (in
%)
4. Aggregate value of outstanding loans to related parties
which are categorized as:
(i) Special Mention Accounts as on 31st March
(ii) Non-Performing Assets as on 31st March
5. Amount of provisions held in respect of loans to related
parties as on 31st March
B. Contracts and Arrangements involving Related Parties
6. Aggregate value of contracts and arrangements awarded
to related parties during the year
7. Aggregate value of outstanding contracts and
arrangements involving related parties as on 31st March
]
(10) Disclosure of complaints
(i) Summary information on complaints received by an NBFC from customers and
from the Offices of Ombudsman
2Inserted with effect from April 01, 2026 vide Reserve Bank of India (Non-Banking Financial Companies –
Financial Statements: Presentation and Disclosures) Directions, Amendment Directions, 2026 dated January 5,
2026
27

Current Previous
Particulars
Sr. No Year Year
Complaints received by the NBFC from its customers
1. Number of complaints pending at beginning of the year
2. Number of complaints received during the year
3. Number of complaints disposed during the year
3.1 Of which, number of complaints rejected by the NBFC
4. Number of complaints pending at the end of the year
Maintainable complaints received by the NBFC from Office of Ombudsman
Number of maintainable complaints received by the
5.*
NBFC from Office of Ombudsman
Of 5, number of complaints resolved in favour of the
5.1.
NBFC by Office of Ombudsman
Of 5, number of complaints resolved through
5.2 conciliation/mediation/advisories issued by Office of
Ombudsman
Of 5, number of complaints resolved after passing of
5.3
Awards by Office of Ombudsman against the NBFC
Number of Awards unimplemented within the stipulated
6.*
time (other than those appealed)
Note: Maintainable complaints refer to complaints on the grounds specifically mentioned in
Integrated Ombudsman Scheme, 2021 (previously the Ombudsman Scheme for Non-
Banking Financial Companies, 2018) and covered within the ambit of the Scheme.
* It shall only be applicable to NBFC which is included under the Reserve Bank – Integrated
Ombudsman Scheme, 2021.
(ii) Top five grounds of complaints received by the NBFC from customers
% increase/
Of 5, number
Number of Number of decrease in the Number of
Grounds of of
complaints complaints number of complaints
complaints, (i.e. complaints
pending at the received complaints pending at
complaints pending
beginning of during the received over the end of
relating to) beyond 30
the year year the previous the year
days
year
1 2 3 4 5 6
Current Year
Ground – 1
Ground – 2
Ground – 3
Ground – 4
Ground – 5
Others
Total
Previous Year
Ground – 1
28

% increase/
Of 5, number
Number of Number of decrease in the Number of
Grounds of of
complaints complaints number of complaints
complaints, (i.e. complaints
pending at the received complaints pending at
complaints pending
beginning of during the received over the end of
relating to) beyond 30
the year year the previous the year
days
year
Ground – 2
Ground – 3
Ground – 4
Ground – 5
Others
Total
The list of grounds of complaints given below are indicative only.
1. Credit Cards 2. Difficulty in operation of 3. Mis-selling 4. Recovery
accounts Agents/ Direct
Sales Agents
5. Loans and advances 6. Levy of charges without 7. Non- 8. Staff
prior notice/ excessive observance of behaviour
charges/ foreclosure fair practices
charges code
9. Facilities for customers 10. Others
visiting the office/ adherence
to prescribed working hours,
etc.
(11) Loans to directors, senior officers and relatives of directors
(₹ crore)
Current Year Previous Year
Directors and their relatives
Entities associated with directors and their
relatives
Senior Officers and their relatives
(12) Currency futures
Disclosures shall be made in the balance sheet relating to transactions undertaken in
the currency futures market, in accordance with the guidelines issued by SEBI.
(13) Liquidity
The requirements stipulated in this sub-paragraph are applicable to non-deposit
taking NBFCs with asset size of ₹100 crore and above, Core Investment Companies
and all deposit taking NBFCs.
29

An NBFC shall publicly disclose information as given below on a quarterly basis on
the official website and in the annual financial statements as ‘Notes to Accounts’.
(i) Funding Concentration based on significant counterparty (both deposits and
borrowings)
Number of
Sr Amount % of Total
Significant % of Total Liabilities
No. (₹ crore) deposits
Counterparties
(ii) Top 20 large deposits (amount in ₹ crore and percent of total deposits)
(iii) Top 10 borrowings (amount in ₹ crore and percent of total borrowings)
(iv) Funding Concentration based on significant instrument / product
Sr Amount % of Total
Name of the instrument/product
No. (₹ crore) Liabilities
(v) Stock Ratios
i) Commercial papers as a percent of total public funds, total liabilities and
total assets
ii) Non-convertible debentures (original maturity of less than one year) as a
percent of total public funds, total liabilities and total assets
iii) Other short-term liabilities, if any as a percent of total public funds, total
liabilities and total assets
iv) Institutional set-up for liquidity risk management
(14) Credit Default Swaps
(i) With reference to CDS transactions undertaken by an NBFC, it shall disclose
following details in its ‘Notes to Accounts’.
(₹ crore)
1. No. of transactions during the year
2. Amount of protection bought during
the year
30

3. No. of transactions where credit
event payment was received during
the year
a) pertaining to current year's
transactions
b) pertaining to previous year(s)'
transactions
4. Outstanding transactions as on
March 31
a) No. of Transactions
b) Amount of protection
5. Net income / profit (expenditure /
loss) in respect of CDS transactions
during year-to-date
a) premium paid
b) Credit event payments received
(net of value of deliverable
obligation).
(15) Comparison between provisions required under IRACP and impairment
allowances made under Ind AS 109
An NBFC, implementing Ind AS, shall make following disclosure comparing
provisioning under IRACP and impairment allowance under Ind AS 109.
Asset Loss
Gross Provisions Difference
classificati Allowances
Asset Classification as per Carrying Net Carrying required as between Ind
on as per (Provisions)
RBI Norms Amount as Amount per IRACP AS 109
Ind AS as required
per Ind AS norms provisions and
109 under Ind AS
IRACP norms
109
(1) (2) (3) (4) (5)=(3)-(4) (6) (7) = (4)-(6)
Performing Assets
Stage 1
Standard
Stage 2
Subtotal
Non-Performing Assets (NPA)
Substandard Stage 3
Doubtful - up to 1 year Stage 3
1 to 3 years Stage 3
31

More than 3 years Stage 3
Subtotal for doubtful
Loss Stage 3
Subtotal for NPA
Other items such as Stage 1
guarantees, loan Stage 2
commitments, etc. which are in
the scope of Ind AS 109 but
Stage 3
not covered under current
Income Recognition, Asset
Classification and Provisioning
(IRACP) norms
Subtotal
Stage 1
Stage 2
Total
Stage 3
Total
32

C.2 Disclosure requirements for NBFCs-Middle Layer (NBFCs-ML) and Upper
Layer (NBFCs-UL)
22. An NBFC shall make following disclosures in ‘Notes to Accounts’ to the
financial statements.
1) Summary of significant accounting policies
An NBFC shall disclose the accounting policies regarding key areas of
operations at one place along with ‘Notes to Accounts’ in its financial
statements. A suggestive list includes – basis of accounting, transactions
involving foreign exchange, investments - classification, valuation, etc.,
advances and provisions thereon, fixed Assets and depreciation, revenue
recognition, employee benefits, provision for taxation, net profit, etc.
2) Capital
(Amount in ₹ crore)
Particulars Current Previous
Year Year
(i) CRAR (%)
(ii) CRAR – Tier 1 capital (%)
(iii) CRAR – Tier 2 capital (%)
(iv) Amount of subordinated debt raised as Tier- 2 capital
(v) Amount raised by issue of Perpetual Debt Instruments
A non-deposit taking NBFC issuing Perpetual Debt Instrument, shall make
suitable disclosures in its Annual Report about:
(i) Amount of funds raised through PDI during the year and outstanding at the
close of the financial year;
(ii) Percentage of the amount of PDI of the amount of its Tier 1 capital;
(iii) Mention the financial year in which interest on PDI has not been paid
3) Investments
(Amount in ₹ crore)
Particulars Current Year Previous Year
1. Value of Investments
33

Particulars Current Year Previous Year
(i) Gross Value of Investments
(a) In India
(b) Outside India
(ii) Provisions for Depreciation
(a) In India
(b) Outside India
(iii) Net Value of Investments
(a) In India
(b) Outside India
2. Movement of provisions held towards
depreciation on investments
(i) Opening balance
(ii) Add: Provisions made during the year
(iii) Less: Write-off / write-back of excess provisions
during the year
(iv) Closing balance
4) Derivatives
(i) Forward rate agreement / interest rate swap
(Amount in ₹ crore)
Particulars Current Previous
Year Year
(i) The notional principal of swap agreements
(ii) Losses which would be incurred if counterparties failed to
fulfil their obligations under the agreements
(iii) Collateral required by the NBFC upon entering into
swaps
(iv) Concentration of credit risk arising from the swaps $
(v) The fair value of the swap book @
Note: Nature and terms of the swaps including information on credit and market risk and the
accounting policies adopted for recording the swaps should also be disclosed.
$ Examples of concentration could be exposures to particular industries or swaps with highly
geared companies.
@ If the swaps are linked to specific assets, liabilities, or commitments, the fair value would
be the estimated amount that the NBFC would receive or pay to terminate the swap
agreements as on the balance sheet date.
34

(ii) Exchange traded interest rate (IR) derivatives
(Amount in ₹ crore)
Particulars Amount
(i) Notional principal amount of exchange traded IR derivatives undertaken during the year
(instrument wise)
(a)
(b)
(c)
(ii) Notional principal amount of exchange traded IR derivatives outstanding as on 31st
March …. (instrument wise)
(a)
(b)
(c)
(iii) Notional principal amount of exchange traded IR derivatives outstanding and not
‘highlyeffective’ (instrument wise)
(a)
(b)
(c)
(iv) Mark-to-market value of exchange traded IR derivatives outstanding and not ’highly
effective‘ (instrument wise)
(a)
(b)
(c)
(iii) Disclosures on risk exposure in derivatives
Qualitative disclosures
An NBFC shall describe its risk management policies pertaining to derivatives with
particular reference to the extent to which derivatives are used, the associated risks
and business purposes served. The discussion shall also include:
(a) The structure and organisation for management of risk in derivatives trading,
(b) The scope and nature of risk measurement, risk reporting and risk monitoring
systems,
35

(c) Policies for hedging and / or mitigating risk and strategies and processes for
monitoring the continuing effectiveness of hedges/mitigants, and
(d) Accounting policy for recording hedge and non-hedge transactions; recognition
of income, premiums and discounts; valuation of outstanding contracts;
provisioning, collateral and credit risk mitigation.
Quantitative disclosures
(Amount in ₹ crore)
Currency Interest Rate
Sl.No. Particulars
Derivatives Derivatives
(i) Derivatives (Notional Principal Amount)
For Hedging
(ii) Marked to Market Positions
(a) Assets (+)
(b) Liability (-)
(iii) Credit Exposure
(iv) Unhedged Exposures
5) Asset liability management (Maturity pattern of certain items of Assets and
Liabilities)
36
ot 1 syad 7 ot 8 syad 41 ot 51
syad
13 / 03
htnom
eno revO
shtnom
2 otpu
shtnom
2 revO
shtnom
3 otpu
dna
shtnom
3 revO
shtnom
6 ot
shtnom
6 revO
raey
1 ot pu dna
dna
raey 1 revO
sraey
3 ot pu
dna
sraey 3 revO
sraey
5 ot pu 5 revO sraey latoT
Deposits
Advances
Investments
Borrowings
Foreign Currency
assets
Foreign Currency
liabilities
6) Exposures
(i) Details of financing of parent company products

(ii) Details of Single Borrower Limit (SGL) / Group Borrower Limit (GBL)
exceeded by the NBFC
An NBFC shall make appropriate disclosure in respect of the exposures where
it had exceeded the prudential exposure limits during the year. Computation of
exposure limits shall be reckoned as per Credit / investment concentration
Norms / Large Exposure Framework prescribed by the Reserve Bank, as
applicable.
Note – For computation of exposure limit an NBFC shall refer the Reserve
Bank of India (Non-Banking Financial Companies – Concentration Risk
Management) Directions, 2025.
(iii) Unsecured advances
(a) For determining the amount of unsecured advances, the rights, licenses,
authorisations, etc., charged to an NBFC as collateral in respect of projects
(including infrastructure projects) financed by it, shall not be reckoned as
tangible security. Hence, such advances shall be reckoned as unsecured.
(b) The NBFC shall also disclose the total amount of advances for which intangible
securities such as charge over the rights, licenses, authority, etc. has been
taken as also the estimated value of such intangible collateral. The disclosure
shall be made under a separate head in ‘Notes to Accounts’. This would
differentiate such loans from other entirely unsecured loans.
7) Corporate governance
Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure
Requirements) Regulations, 2015 (Paragraph C of Schedule V - Annual
Report) as amended from time to time, specifies disclosures to be made in the
section on the corporate governance of the Annual Report. With respect to the
corporate governance report, non-listed NBFC should also endeavour to make
full disclosure in accordance with the requirement of SEBI (LODR) Regulation,
2015. Non-listed NBFC at the minimum should disclose following under the
corporate governance section of the annual report.
37

(i) Composition of the Board
Capacity No. of shares held in
(i.e., Number of and convertible
Remuneration
Executive/ D Board Meetings instruments held in
Non- the NBFC
Name of Director No. of other
Sl. No. Executive/ I
Director since Directorships
Chairman/ Salary and
Promoter N other Sitting Commis
Held Attended
nominee/ compensa Fee sion
Independent) tion
(ii) Details of change in composition of the Board during the current and
previous financial year.
Capacity Nature of change
Sl. Name of (i.e., Executive / Non-Executive / Effective
No. Director Chairman / Promoter nominee / (resignation, date
Independent) appointment)
Where an independent director resigns before expiry of her / his term, the reasons for
resignation as given by her / him shall be disclosed.
Details of any relationship amongst the directors inter-se shall be disclosed
(iii) Committees of the Board and their composition
(a) Mention the names of the committees of the Board.
(b) For each committee, mention the summarised terms of reference and
provide the following details.
Capacity Number of
No. of
Member of (i.e., Executive/ Non- Meetings of the
Sl. Name of shares
Committee Executive/ Chairman/ Committee
No. Director held in the
since Promoter nominee/
NBFC
Independent) Held Attended
1. Chairperson
2.
(iv) General body meetings
38

Give details of the date, place and special resolutions passed at the General Body
Meetings.
Sl. Type of Meeting (Annual/ Extra- Date and Special resolutions
No. Ordinary) Place passed
(v) Details of non-compliance with requirements of Companies Act, 2013
The details and reasons of any default in compliance with the requirements of
Companies Act, 2013, including with respect to compliance with accounting and
secretarial standards shall be disclosed.
(vi) Details of penalties and strictures
An NBFC shall disclose in public domain and in ‘Notes to Accounts’, the details
of penalties or stricture imposed on it by the Reserve Bank or any other
statutory / regulatory authority. Further, directions on the basis of inspection
reports or other adverse findings shall also be disclosed in the public domain.
(vii) Management discussion and analysis report
As part of the Directors’ report or as an addition thereto, a Management
Discussion and Analysis report shall form part of the Annual Report to the
shareholders. This Management Discussion & Analysis shall include discussion
on the following matters within the limits set by the company’s competitive
position:
(a) Industry structure and developments
(b) Opportunities and threats
(c) Segment–wise or product-wise performance
(d) Outlook
(e) Risks and concerns.
(f) Internal control systems and their adequacy
(g) Discussion on financial performance with respect to operational
performance.
(h) Material developments in Human Resources / Industrial Relations front,
including number of people employed.
39

8) Breach of covenant
An NBFC shall disclose all instances of breach of covenant of loan availed or
debt securities issued.
9) Divergence in Asset Classification and Provisioning
An NBFC shall disclose details of divergence as per the table given below, if
either or both of the following conditions are satisfied:
a) the additional provisioning requirements assessed by the Reserve Bank
exceeds five percent of the reported profits before tax and impairment
loss on financial instruments for the reference period, or
b) the additional Gross NPAs identified by RBI exceeds five per cent of the
reported Gross NPAs for the reference period.
Sr. Particulars Amount
1. Gross NPAs as on March 31, 20XX* as reported by the NBFC
2. Gross NPAs as on March 31, 20XX as assessed by the Reserve
Bank of India/ NHB
3. Divergence in Gross NPAs (2-1)
4. Net NPAs as on March 31, 20XX as reported by the NBFC
5. Net NPAs as on March 31, 20XX as assessed by Reserve Bank of
India/ NHB
6. Divergence in Net NPAs (5-4)
7. Provisions for NPAs as on March 31, 20XX as reported by the
NBFC
8. Provisions for NPAs as on March 31, 20XX as assessed by
Reserve Bank of India/ NHB
9. Divergence in provisioning (8-7)
10. Reported Profit before tax and impairment loss on financial
instruments for the year ended March 31, 20XX
11. Reported Net Profit after Tax (PAT) for the year ended March 31,
20XX
12. Adjusted (notional) Net Profit after Tax (PAT) for the year ended
March 31, 20XX after considering the divergence in provisioning
* March 31, 20XX is the close of the reference period in respect of which divergences were assessed
40

10) Registration from other financial sector regulators
An NBFC shall disclose registration / license / authorisation, by whatever name
called, obtained from other financial sector regulators.
11) Area of Operation
Information namely, area, country of operation and joint venture partners with
regard to joint ventures and overseas subsidiaries shall also be disclosed.
12) Disclosure of ratings
An NBFC shall make disclosure of ratings assigned by Credit Rating Agencies
to it and migration of its ratings during the year.
13) Remuneration of Directors
An NBFC shall disclose all pecuniary relationship or transactions of the non-
executive directors vis-à-vis the company.
14) Net Profit or Loss for the period, prior period items and changes in
accounting policies
Since the format of the Profit and Loss account does not specifically provide for
disclosure of the impact of prior period items on the current year's profit and
loss, such disclosures, wherever warranted, shall be made by an NBFC.
15) Revenue Recognition
An NBFC shall disclose the circumstances in which revenue recognition has
been postponed pending the resolution of significant uncertainties.
16) Provisions and contingencies
An NBFC shall disclose details of provisions and contingencies in following
format.
(Amount in ₹ crore)
Break up of 'Provisions and Contingencies' shown under the Current Previous
head Expenditure in Profit and Loss Account Year Year
Provisions for depreciation on Investment
Provision towards NPA
Provision made towards Income tax
41

Break up of 'Provisions and Contingencies' shown under the Current Previous
head Expenditure in Profit and Loss Account Year Year
Other Provision and Contingencies (with details)
Provision for Standard Assets
17) Draw down from Reserves
An NBFC shall make suitable disclosures regarding any draw down of
reserves.
18) Concentration of deposits, advances, exposures and NPAs
(i) Concentration of Deposits (for deposit taking NBFCs)
(Amount in ₹ crore)
Particulars
Total deposits of twenty largest depositors
Percentage of Deposits of twenty largest depositors to Total Deposits of the
deposit taking NBFC
(ii) Concentration of Advances
(Amount in ₹ crore)
Particulars
Total Advances to twenty largest borrowers
Percentage of Advances to twenty largest borrowers to Total Advances of the
NBFC
(iii) Concentration of Exposures
(Amount in ₹ crore)
Particulars
Total Exposure to twenty largest borrowers / customers
Percentage of Exposures to twenty largest borrowers / customers to Total
Exposure of the NBFC on borrowers/customers
(iv) Concentration of NPAs
(Amount in ₹ crore)
Particulars
42

Total Exposure to top four NPA accounts
43

19) Movement of NPAs
(Amount in ₹ crore)
Particulars Current Year Previous Year
(i) Net NPAs to Net Advances (%)
(ii) Movement of NPAs (Gross)
(a) Opening balance
(b) Additions during the year
(c) Reductions during the year
(d) Closing balance
(iii) Movement of Net NPAs
(a) Opening balance
(b) Additions during the year
(c) Reductions during the year
(d) Closing balance
(iv) Movement of provisions for NPAs (excluding provisions on standard assets)
(a) Opening balance
(b) Provisions made during the year
(c) Write-off/write-back of excess provisions
(d) Closing balance
20) Overseas assets (for those with joint ventures and subsidiaries abroad)
Name of the Joint Other Partner in the Country Total Assets
Venture/ Subsidiary JV
21) Off-balance sheet SPVs sponsored
(which are required to be consolidated as per accounting norms)
Name of the SPV sponsored
Domestic Overseas
44

22) Off-balance sheet exposures and structured products
An NBFC shall provide details of details of all off-balance sheet exposures and
structured products issued by it.
23) Disclosure on Liquidity Coverage Ratio (LCR)
Provisions of this Paragraph shall not apply to non-deposit taking NBFCs with asset
size below ₹5000 crore, Core Investment Companies (CICs), and SPDs.
An NBFC shall adhere to the following LCR Disclosure standards:
(i) An NBFC shall disclose information on its LCR covering all the four quarters of
relevant financial year (whether audited or otherwise) in the template given
below.
(ii) Data must be presented as simple averages of daily observations over the
previous quarter (i.e., the average is calculated over a period of 90 days).
(iii) In addition to the disclosures required by the template given below, the NBFC
shall provide sufficient qualitative discussion (in its annual financial statements
under ‘Notes to Accounts’) around the LCR to facilitate understanding of the
results and data provided. For example, where significant to the LCR, the
NBFC could discuss:
(a) the main drivers of its LCR results and the evolution of the contribution of
inputs to the LCR’s calculation over time;
(b) intra-period changes as well as changes over time;
(c) the composition of High Quality Liquid Assets (HQLAs);
(d) concentration of funding sources;
(e) derivative exposures and potential collateral calls;
(f) currency mismatch in the LCR;
(g) other inflows and outflows in the LCR calculation that are not captured in
the LCR common template but which the institution considers to be
relevant for its liquidity profile.
45

LCR Disclosure Template
Total
Total Weighted$
(₹ in Crore) Unweighted*
Value (average)
Value (average)
High Quality Liquid Assets
1 #Total High Quality Liquid Assets (HQLA)
Cash Outflows
2 Deposits (for deposit taking companies)
3 Unsecured wholesale funding
4 Secured wholesale funding
5 Additional requirements, of which
(i) Outflows related to derivative exposures
and other collateral requirements
(ii) Outflows related to loss of funding on debt
products
(iii) Credit and liquidity facilities
6 Other contractual funding obligations
7 Other contingent funding obligations
8 Total Cash Outflows
Cash Inflows
9 Secured lending
10 Inflows from fully performing exposures
11 Other cash inflows
12 Total Cash Inflows
Total Adjusted
Value
13 Total HQLA
14 Total Net Cash Outflows
15 Liquidity Coverage Ratio (%)
*Unweighted values must be calculated as outstanding balances maturing or callable within 30 days
(for inflows and outflows).
$Weighted values must be calculated after the application of respective haircuts (for HQLA) and stress
factors on inflow and outflow.
#Components of HQLA need to be disclosed.
46

Note: NBFC shall be guided by the Reserve Bank of India (Non-Banking Financial Companies – Asset
Liability Management) Directions, 2025, as amended from time to time, for associated guidelines on
asset liability management including LCR.
24) Currency Options
Disclosures shall be made in the balance sheet regarding transactions, if any,
undertaken in the designated currency options exchanges recognized by SEBI, in
accordance with the guidelines issued by SEBI.
C.3 Disclosure requirements for NBFC - Upper Layer (UL)
23. An NBFC-UL shall be mandatorily listed within three years of identification as
NBFC-UL. Accordingly, upon being identified as NBFC-UL, an unlisted NBFC-
UL shall draw up a Board approved roadmap for compliance with the disclosure
requirements of a listed company under the Securities and Exchange Board of
India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015 (as
amended from time to time).
3[Provided that these provisions shall not be applicable to NBFC-UL which are
fully owned and controlled by Government.]
3
Inserted vide Reserve Bank of India (Non-Banking Financial Companies – Financial Statements: Presentation and
Disclosures) Second Amendment Directions, 2026 dated June 24, 2026.
47

Chapter-IV Consolidated Financial Statements
24. An NBFC may be guided by general clarifications issued by the ICAI from time
to time. A parent company, presenting the consolidated financial statements
(CFS), shall consolidate the financial statements of all subsidiaries - domestic
as well as foreign. The reasons for not consolidating a subsidiary shall be
disclosed in the CFS. The responsibility of determining whether a particular
entity shall be included or not for consolidation would be that of the
management of the parent entity. In case, its Statutory Auditors are of the
opinion that an entity which ought to have been consolidated has been omitted,
they shall incorporate their comments in this regard in the "Auditors Report".
48

Chapter-V Repeal and other provisions
A. Repeal and saving
25. With the issue of these Directions, the existing Directions, instructions, and
guidelines relating to Financial Statements- Presentation and Disclosures as
applicable to Non-Banking Financial Companies stand repealed, as
communicated vide circular DOR.RRC.REC.302/33-01-010/2025-26 dated
November 28, 2025. The directions, instructions, and guidelines repealed prior
to the issuance of these Directions shall continue to remain repealed.
26. Notwithstanding such repeal, any action taken or purported to have been taken,
or initiated under the repealed Directions, instructions, or guidelines shall
continue to be governed by the provisions thereof. All approvals or
acknowledgments granted under these repealed lists shall be deemed as
governed by these Directions. Further, the repeal of these directions,
instructions, or guidelines shall not in any way prejudicially affect:
a. any right, obligation or liability acquired, accrued, or incurred
thereunder;
b. any penalty, forfeiture, or punishment incurred in respect of any
contravention committed thereunder;
c. any investigation, legal proceeding, or remedy in respect of any such
right, privilege, obligation, liability, penalty, forfeiture, or punishment as
aforesaid; and any such investigation, legal proceedings or remedy
may be instituted, continued, or enforced and any such penalty,
forfeiture or punishment may be imposed as if those directions,
instructions, or guidelines had not been repealed.
B. Application of other laws not barred
27. The provisions of these Directions shall be in addition to, and not in derogation
of the provisions of any other laws, rules, regulations or directions, for the time
being in force.
49

C. Interpretations
28. For the purpose of giving effect to the provisions of these Directions or in order
to remove any difficulties in the application or interpretation of the provisions of
these Directions, the RBI may, if it considers necessary, issue necessary
clarifications in respect of any matter covered herein and the interpretation of
any provision of these Directions given by the RBI shall be final and binding.
(Sunil T S Nair)
Chief General Manager
50

Annex I
Schedule to the Balance Sheet
(₹ in crore)
Particulars
Amount Amount
Liabilities side
Outstanding Overdue
(1) Loans and advances availed by the NBFC
inclusive of interest accrued thereon but not
paid:
(a) Debentures: Secured
: Unsecured
(other than falling within the meaning of
public deposits*)
(b) Deferred Credits
(c) Term Loans
(d) Inter-corporate loans and borrowing
(e) Commercial Paper
(f) Public Deposits*
(g) Other Loans (specify nature)
* Please see Note 1 below
(2) Break-up of (1)(f) above (Outstanding public
deposits inclusive of interest accrued
thereon but not paid):
(a) In the form of Unsecured debentures
(b) In the form of partly secured debentures
i.e. debentures where there is a shortfall
in the value of security
(c) Other public deposits
* Please see Note 1 below
Assets side Amount outstanding
(3) Break-up of Loans and Advances including
bills receivables [other than those included
in (4) below]:
(a) Secured
51

(b) Unsecured
(4) Break up of Leased Assets and stock on
hire and other assets counting towards
asset financing activities
(i) Lease assets including lease rentals
under sundry debtors:
(a) Financial lease
(b) Operating lease
(ii) Stock on hire including hire charges
under sundry debtors:
(a) Assets on hire
(b) Repossessed Assets
(iii) Other loans counting towards asset
financing activities
(a) Loans where assets have been
repossessed
(b) Loans other than (a) above
(5) Break-up of Investments
Current Investments
1. Quoted
(i) Shares
(a) Equity
(b) Preference
(ii) Debentures and Bonds
(iii) Units of mutual funds
(iv) Government Securities
(v) Others (please specify)
2. Unquoted
(i) Shares
(a) Equity
(b) Preference
(ii) Debentures and Bonds
(iii) Units of mutual funds
(iv) Government Securities
(v) Others (please specify)
52

Long Term investments
1. Quoted
(i) Share
(a) Equity
(b) Preference
(ii) Debentures and Bonds
(iii) Units of mutual funds
(iv) Government Securities
(v) Others (please specify)
2. Unquoted
(i) Shares
(a) Equity
(b) Preference
(ii) Debentures and Bonds
(iii) Units of mutual funds
(iv) Government Securities
(v) Others (please specify)
(6) Borrower group-wise classification of assets financed as in (3) and (4) above:
Please see Note 2 below
Category Amount net of provisions
Secured Unsecured Total
1. Related Parties **
(a) Subsidiaries
(b) Companies in the
same group
(c) Other related parties
2. Other than related parties
Total
(7) Investor group-wise classification of all investments (current and long term) in
shares and securities (both quoted and unquoted):
Please see Note 3 below
Category Market Value/ Book Value
Break up or fair (Net of
value or NAV Provisions)
1. Related Parties **
53

(a) Subsidiaries
(b) Companies in the same group
(c) Other related parties
2. Other than related parties
Total
** As per Accounting Standards of ICAI (Please see Note 3)
(8) Other information
Particulars Amount
(i) Gross Non-Performing Assets
(a) Related parties
(b) Other than related parties
(ii) Net Non-Performing Assets
(a) Related parties
(b) Other than related parties
(iii) Assets acquired in satisfaction of debt
Notes:
1. As defined in the Reserve Bank of India (Non-Banking Financial Companies –
Acceptance of Public Deposits) Directions, 2025
2. Provisioning norms shall be applicable as prescribed in these Directions.
3. All notified Accounting Standards and Guidance Notes issued by ICAI are applicable
including for valuation of investments and other assets as also assets acquired in
satisfaction of debt. However, market value in respect of quoted investments and break
up / fair value / NAV in respect of unquoted investments shall be disclosed irrespective
of whether they are classified as long term (amortised cost in the case of Ind AS) or
current (fair value in the case of Ind AS) in (5) above.
54