भारतीय �रज़वर् बैंक
RESERVE BANK OF INDIA
RBI/DOR/2025-26/358
DOR.FIN.REC.No.277/20-16-003/2025-26 November 28, 2025
Reserve Bank of India (Non-Banking Financial Companies – Treatment of
Wilful Defaulters and Large Defaulters) Directions, 2025 (Updated as on July
01, 2026)
Table of Contents
Chapter I - Preliminary .................................................................................................... 3
Chapter II - Function of Board ..................................................................................... 10
Chapter III - Treatment of Wilful Defaulters ................................................................ 11
Chapter IV - Reporting of Wilful Defaulters and Large Defaulters ........................... 17
Chapter V - Preventive Measures and Role of Auditors ............................................ 21
Chapter VI - Repeal and Other Provisions .................................................................. 24
Annex I - Format for submission of List of Large Defaulters ................................... 26
Annex II - Format for submission of data on cases of wilful default ....................... 29

Introduction
The objective of these Directions is to provide for a non-discriminatory and
transparent procedure, having regard to the principles of natural justice, for classifying
a borrower as a wilful defaulter by NBFCs. The directions also aim to put in place a
system to disseminate credit information about wilful defaulters for cautioning lenders
to ensure that further institutional finance is not made available to them.
Accordingly, in exercise of the powers conferred by Section 45 JA, Section 45 L of
the Reserve Bank of India Act, 1934; and Section 11 of the Credit Information
Companies (Regulation) Act, 2005, the Reserve Bank, being satisfied that it is
necessary and expedient in public interest so to do, hereby, issues these Directions
hereinafter specified.
2

Chapter I - Preliminary
1. Short title and commencement
(1) These directions shall be called the Reserve Bank of India (Non-Banking
Financial Companies – Treatment of Wilful Defaulters and Large Defaulters)
Directions, 2025.
(2) These directions shall come into force with immediate effect.
2. Applicability
(1) These Directions shall be applicable to following Non-Banking Financial
Companies (hereinafter collectively referred to as ‘NBFCs’ and individually as an
‘NBFC’), categorized as NBFC-Middle Layer (NBFC-ML) and above layers:
(i) NBFC-D registered with the RBI under the provisions of the RBI Act, 1934;
(ii) NBFC-ICC registered with the RBI under the provisions of the RBI Act, 1934;
(iii) NBFC-Factor registered with the RBI under the provisions of the Factoring
Regulation Act, 2011;
(iv) NBFC-MFI registered with the RBI under the provisions of the RBI Act, 1934;
(v) NBFC-IFC registered with the RBI under the provisions of the RBI Act, 1934;
(vi) IDF-NBFC registered with the RBI under the provisions of the RBI Act, 1934;
(vii) HFC registered with the RBI under the provisions of the NHB Act, 1987;
(viii) CIC registered with the RBI under the provisions of the RBI Act, 1934;
(2) These Directions are not applicable for the following:
(i) MGC registered with RBI under the scheme of Registration of Mortgage
Guarantee Companies
(ii) NBFC-P2P registered with the RBI under the provisions of the RBI Act, 1934;
(iii) NBFC-AA registered with the RBI under the provisions of the RBI Act, 1934;
(iv) SPD registered with the RBI as NBFCs under the provisions of the RBI Act,
1934;
(v) NOFHC registered with the RBI as NBFC under the provisions of the RBI Act,
1934;
(vi) 1[NBFC holding Certificate of Registration as ‘Type I NBFC’];
1 Substituted with effect from July 01, 2026 vide Reserve Bank of India (Non-Banking Financial Companies – Registration,
Exemptions and Framework for Scale Based Regulation) Amendment Directions, 2026 dated April 29, 2026.
3

Provided that, the restrictions on further financial accommodation to wilful defaulters
and provisions regarding large defaulters contained in these Directions, shall apply to
all entities regulated by the Reserve Bank, irrespective of whether they fall within the
definition of ‘lender’ as provided in these Directions or not.
(3) The applicability under these Directions is in line with the regulatory structure for
NBFCs as set out in Reserve Bank of India (Non-Banking Financial Companies –
Registration, Exemptions and Framework for Scale Based Regulation) Directions,
2025.
3. Definitions
(1) In these Directions, the following definitions shall apply, unless the context
otherwise requires:
(i) “borrower” shall mean one who has availed credit facility from a NBFC;
(ii) “credit facility” shall mean any fund based or non-fund-based facility, including
off- balance sheet items like derivatives, guarantees and letters of credit
(without prejudice to the provisions on non-fund based facilities contained in
the Reserve Bank of India (Non-Banking Financial Companies – Credit
Facilities) Directions, 2025), which a NBFC has extended to the borrower.
(iii) “credit information company” (CIC) shall mean a company that has been
granted a certificate of registration under Section 5 of the Credit Information
Companies (Regulation) Act, 2005.
(iv) “default” shall have the same meaning assigned to it in the Reserve Bank of
India (Non-Banking Financial Companies – Resolution of Stressed Assets)
Directions, 2025
(v) “director” shall mean the director of a company which was classified as a large
defaulter / wilful defaulter and who was associated with the company at the
time when the acts of omission or commission by the company / its directors
led to the default.
(vi) “director identification number (DIN)” shall have the meaning assigned to it
under the Companies Act, 2013.
(vii) “diversion of funds” shall mean and includes the under- noted occurrences:
4

(a) utilisation of short-term working capital funds for long-term purposes not in
conformity with the terms of sanction of credit facility;
(b) deploying funds availed using credit facility for the creation of assets other than
those for which the credit was sanctioned;
(c) transferring funds availed using credit facility to the subsidiaries / group
companies or other entities, by whatever modality, without approval of the
NBFC / all the lenders in the consortium;
(d) routing of funds through any lender other than the NBFC or members of
consortium without prior written permission of the NBFC or all the lenders of
consortium;
(e) investing funds availed using credit facility in other companies / entities by way
of acquiring equities/debt instruments without the approval of the NBFC or all
the lenders of consortium; and
(f) shortfall in the deployment of funds vis-à-vis the amounts disbursed / drawn
under the credit facility and the difference not being accounted for.
(viii) “guarantor” shall mean a person / entity who has guaranteed the credit facility.
(ix) "identification committee" shall mean the committee constituted by a NBFC for
identifying a wilful defaulter and shall comprise of an officer not more than one
rank below the MD/ CEO as chairperson and two senior officials, not more
than two ranks below the chairperson of the committee, as members.
(x) "independent director" shall have the meaning assigned to it under the
Companies Act, 2013.
(xi) "large defaulter" shall mean a defaulter with an outstanding amount of ₹1 crore
and above, and -
(a) where suit has been filed; or
(b) whose account has been classified as doubtful or loss (in accordance with the
instructions issued by the Reserve Bank from time to time).
(xii) "lender" shall mean any of the following entities which has granted a credit
facility to the borrower:
5

(a) a commercial bank as defined under sub-sections (c), (da), and (nc) of section
5 of the Banking Regulation Act, 1949, including a Small Finance Bank, a
Regional Rural Bank, and a Local Area Bank, but excluding a Payments Bank;
(b) a Scheduled Primary (Urban) Co-operative Bank;
(c) a non - Scheduled Primary (Urban) Co-operative Bank falling under Tier 3 and
4 in terms of the specifications contained in the Reserve Bank of India (Urban
Co-operative Banks – Licensing, Scheduling and Regulatory Classification)
Guidelines, 2025;
(d) an All India Financial Institution, viz., Export-Import Bank of India (EXIM Bank),
National Bank for Agriculture and Rural Development (NABARD), National
Housing Bank (NHB), Small Industries Development Bank of India (SIDBI),
and National Bank for Financing Infrastructure and Development (NaBFID);
(e) a Non-Banking Financial Company (NBFC) falling under NBFC-Middle Layer
(NBFC-ML) and above layers in terms of the specifications contained in the
Reserve Bank of India (Non-Banking Financial Companies – Registration,
Exemptions and Framework for Scale Based Regulation) Guidelines, 2025.
(xiii) "nominee director" shall mean a director nominated by a lender, a regulatory
authority, or the Central or a State Government.
(xiv) "promoter" shall mean a person who has been named as such in a prospectus
or is identified by the company in the annual return, and
(a) has control over the affairs of the company, directly or indirectly, whether as a
shareholder, director or otherwise; and / or
(b) in accordance with whose advice, directions or instructions, the Board of
Directors of the company is accustomed to act.
(xv) "review committee" shall mean the committee constituted by a NBFC for the
purpose of reviewing the proposal of the Identification Committee and shall
comprise of the MD/ CEO as chairperson with two independent directors or
non-executive directors or equivalent officials serving as members.
Explanation: The Review Committee shall not be comprised of members who
are part of the Identification Committee.
6

(xvi) "siphoning of funds" shall be construed to have occurred if any funds availed
using credit facility from NBFC are utilised for purposes unrelated to the
operations of the borrower.
(xvii) “suit filed account” shall mean an account in respect of which one or more
entities regulated by Reserve Bank have approached courts or tribunals
(including under Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code, 2016) for recovery of their
dues, and proceedings are pending.
Explanation 1: An account shall be treated as suit filed if any application,
appeal or execution is pending in continuation of the original recovery
proceedings.
Explanation 2: Suit filed accounts shall be deemed to include accounts in
which proceedings under the Securitisation and Reconstruction of Financial
Assets and Enforcement of Security Interest Act, 2002 or any other
proceedings for recovery of the dues from the borrower or any other person
liable to make payment of a debt under Acts governing co-operative societies
are initiated and pending, and shall include the account of a debtor against
whom resolution or liquidation proceedings have been initiated and are
continuing.
(xviii) “wilful default”
(A) by a borrower shall be deemed to have occurred when the borrower
defaults in meeting payment / repayment obligations to the lender and any one
or more of the following features are noticed:
(a) the borrower has the capacity to honour the said obligations;
(b) the borrower has diverted the funds availed under the credit facility
from lender;
(c) the borrower has siphoned off the funds availed under the credit
facility from lender;
(d) the borrower has disposed of immovable or movable assets provided
for the purpose of securing the credit facility without the approval of
the lender;
7

(e) the borrower or the promoter has failed in its commitment to the
lender to infuse equity despite having the ability to infuse the equity,
although the lender has provided loans or certain concessions to the
borrower based on this commitment and other covenants and
conditions.
(B) by a guarantor shall be deemed to have occurred if the guarantor does not
honour the guarantee when invoked by the lender, despite having sufficient
means to make payment of the dues or has disposed of immovable or movable
assets provided for the purpose of securing the credit facility, without the
approval of the lender or has failed in commitment to the lender to infuse equity
despite having the ability to infuse the equity, although the lender has provided
loans or certain concessions to the borrower based on this commitment.
(xix) "wilful defaulter" shall mean:
(a) a borrower or a guarantor who has committed wilful default and the
outstanding amount is ₹25 lakh and above, or as may be notified by Reserve
Bank of India from time to time, and
(b) where the borrower or a guarantor committing the wilful default is a company,
its promoters and the director (s), subject to the provisions of Paragraph 5(14),
or
(c) in case of an entity (other than a company), persons who are in charge and
responsible for the management of the affairs of the entity.
(2) Transfer of a loan shall mean a transfer undertaken in terms of the Reserve Bank
of India (Non-Banking Financial Companies – Transfer and Distribution of Credit
Risk) Directions, 2025 and hence, the terms “transfer”, “transferor” and
“transferee” shall have the same meaning assigned therein.
(3) All other expressions, unless defined herein, shall have the same meaning as
have been assigned to them under the Banking Regulation Act, 1949 or the
Reserve Bank of India Act, 1934 or the Credit Information Companies (Regulation)
Act, 2005, or the Companies Act, 2013, or any statutory modification or re-
enactment thereto or other regulations issued by the Reserve Bank of India or the
8

Glossary of Terms published by Reserve Bank or as used in commercial parlance,
as the case may be.
9

Chapter II - Function of Board
4. Policy for Implementation of these Directions
(1) A NBFC shall frame a Board approved policy for the implementation of these
Directions, which shall inter alia include the following:
(i) guidelines on designating rank of the official, who would issue the show cause
notice and serve written order on behalf of the Identification Committee and
Review Committee respectively.
(ii) periodicity for re-examination of accounts where 'wilful default' was not
observed during the initial examination;
(iii) non-discriminatory criteria based on which the photographs of persons
classified and declared as wilful defaulter shall be published;
(iv) requirements and related appropriate measures in ensuring the end-use of
funds.
(v) threshold for outstanding in an account to commission forensic audits as
provided in Paragraph 20(6).
10

Chapter III - Treatment of Wilful Defaulters
5. Mechanism for Identification and Classification of Wilful Defaulters
(1) A NBFC shall identify and classify a person as a 'wilful defaulter' by following the
procedure enumerated in these Directions. The identification of the wilful default
should be made keeping in view the track record of the borrowers and should not
be decided on the basis of isolated transactions / incidents.
(2) The default to be categorised as wilful must be intentional, deliberate, calculated
and meeting the conditions set out in paragraph 3 (1) (xviii) above.
(3) The evidence of wilful default shall be examined by an Identification Committee.
(4) If the Identification Committee is satisfied that an event of wilful default has
occurred, it shall issue a show-cause notice to borrower / guarantor / promoter /
director / persons who are in charge and responsible for the management of the
affairs of the entity, and call for the submissions from them within 21 days of
issuance of show cause notice. The NBFC shall disclose to them all materials and
information on which show cause notice is based.
Explanation: Director (s) / persons who are in charge and responsible for the
management of the affairs of the entity means who were associated with the company
/ entity at the time when the acts of omission or commission by the company / entity
led to the default.
(5) After considering the submissions and where satisfied, the Identification
Committee shall make a proposal to the Review Committee for classification as a
wilful defaulter by explaining the reasons in writing.
Explanation: If the Identification Committee concludes that the borrower /
guarantor / promoter / director / persons who are in charge and responsible for
the management of the affairs of the entity, do not qualify for classification as a
wilful defaulter, such cases need not be referred to the Review Committee.
(6) The borrower / guarantor / promoter / director / persons who are in charge and
responsible for the management of the affairs of the entity shall thereafter be
suitably advised about the proposal to classify them as wilful defaulter along with
the reasons therefor.
11

(7) An opportunity shall be provided to borrower / guarantor / promoter / director /
persons who are in charge and responsible for the management of the affairs of
the entity for making a written representation to Review Committee within 15 days
of such a proposal from the Identification Committee.
(8) The proposal of the Identification Committee along with the written representation
received shall be considered by the Review Committee.
(9) The Review Committee shall provide an opportunity for a personal hearing also
to the borrower / guarantor / promoter / director / persons who are in charge and
responsible for the management of the affairs of the entity. However, if the
opportunity is not availed or if the personal hearing is not attended by the borrower
/ guarantor / promoter / director / persons who are in charge and responsible for
the management of the affairs of the entity, the Review Committee shall, after
assessing the facts or material on record, including written representation, if any,
consider the proposal of the Identification Committee and take a decision.
(10) As the above classification process is an in-house proceeding, the borrower /
guarantor / promoter / director / persons in charge and responsible for the
management of affairs shall not have the right to be represented by a lawyer.
(11) The Review Committee shall pass a reasoned order and the same shall be
communicated to the wilful defaulter.
(12) The designated official shall issue the show cause notice and serve written order
on behalf of the Identification Committee and Review Committee respectively.
(13) The show-cause notice and the order served by the designated official shall
clearly state that this has the approval of the competent authority, i.e.,
Identification/ Review Committee and must identify its members.
(14) A director other than whole-time director, including an independent director /
nominee director, shall not be considered as wilful defaulter unless it is
conclusively established that:
(i) the wilful default by the borrower or the guarantor has taken place with their
consent or connivance or
(ii) they were aware of the fact of wilful default by the borrower or the guarantor,
12

as revealed from the proceedings recorded in the minutes of the meeting of
the Board or a Committee of the Board, but have not recorded their objections
to the same.
(15) The name of a non-whole-time director / independent director / nominee
director who has been classified as a wilful defaulter shall be reported in Annex II
indicating that they are a non-whole-time director / independent director / nominee
director.
6. Review of accounts for identification of wilful default
(1) A NBFC shall examine the 'wilful default' aspect in all Non-Performing Assets
(NPA) accounts with outstanding amount of ₹25 lakh and above or as may be notified
by Reserve Bank of India from time to time.
(2) If wilful default is observed in the internal preliminary screening, a NBFC shall
complete the process of classification/ declaring the borrower as a wilful defaulter by
following the mechanism set out in Paragraph 5, within six months of the account
being classified as NPA in accordance with the instructions regarding asset
classification contained in the Reserve Bank of India (Non-Banking financial
Companies – Income Recognition, Asset Classification and Provisioning) Directions,
2025.
(3) In respect of accounts where 'wilful default' was not observed during the initial
examination as mentioned at sub-paragraphs (1) and (2), the aspects regarding 'wilful
default' shall be subsequently re-examined in terms of the Board approved policy of
the NBFC at a periodicity as may be specified by the Board.
7. Specific measures against wilful defaulters
(1) Initiation of criminal proceedings by the NBFC
(i) Based on the facts and circumstances of each case, a NBFC can examine
whether initiation of criminal proceedings against wilful defaulters under the
provisions of the applicable law, is warranted.
(ii) In cases where criminal proceedings have been initiated, removal of the name
of a wilful defaulter from the List of Wilful Defaulters (LWD) shall be without
prejudice to the continuation of criminal proceedings against the wilful
13

defaulter.
(2) Publishing of photographs of wilful defaulters – A NBFC shall formulate a non-
discriminatory board-approved policy that clearly sets out the criteria based on which
the photographs of persons classified and declared as wilful defaulter shall be
published.
(3) Penal and other measures against wilful defaulters – The penal measures
mentioned below shall be implemented by a NBFC in the case of any person / entity
classified as wilful defaulter by any lender:
(i) No additional credit facility shall be granted by the NBFC to the wilful defaulter
or any entity with which the wilful defaulter is associated.
(ii) The bar on additional credit facility to the wilful defaulter or any entity with
which the wilful defaulter is associated shall be effective for a period of one
year after the name of the wilful defaulter has been removed from the List of
Wilful Defaulters by the lenders.
(iii) No credit facility shall be granted by the NBFC for floating of new ventures to
the wilful defaulter or any entity with which the wilful defaulter is associated for
a period of five years after the name of wilful defaulter has been removed from
the List of Wilful Defaulters by the lenders.
(iv) The restructuring of wilful defaulters or any entity with which a wilful defaulter
is associated shall be as per the stipulations contained in the Reserve Bank of
India (Non-Banking Financial Companies – Resolution of Stressed Assets)
Directions, 2025.
Provided that the penal provisions mentioned above shall cease to be applicable on
the associated entities when they are no longer associated with the wilful defaulters.
Explanation 1: If the wilful defaulter is a company, another company will be deemed
to be associated with it, if that company is –
i. a 'subsidiary company' as defined under clause 2 (87) of the Companies Act,
2013.
ii. falls within the definition of a 'joint venture' or an 'associate company' under
clause (6) of section 2 of the Companies Act, 2013.
14

Explanation 2: If the wilful defaulter is a natural person, all entities in which he is
associated as promoter, or director, or as one in charge and responsible for the
management of the affairs of the entity shall be deemed to be associated.
Explanation 3: In cases where the existing promoters are replaced by new promoters
in terms of Reserve Bank of India (Non-Banking Financial Companies – Resolution
of Stressed Assets) Directions, 2025 and the borrower company is totally delinked
from such erstwhile promoters/ management, lenders may take a view on
restructuring such accounts based on their viability, without prejudice to the
continuance of criminal proceedings against the erstwhile promoters/ management.
(4) Incorporation of covenant
(i) A NBFC shall incorporate a covenant in the agreement while extending credit
facility to a borrower that it shall not induct a person whose name appears in
the LWD on its board or as a person in charge and responsible for the
management of the affairs of the entity.
(ii) In case such a person is found to be on its board or as a person in charge and
responsible for the management of the affairs of the entity, the borrower would
take expeditious and effective steps for removal of such a person from the
board or from being in charge of its management.
(iii) Under no circumstances shall a NBFC renew / enhance / provide fresh credit
facilities or restructure existing facilities provided to such a borrower so long
as the name of its promoter and / or the director (s) and / or the person in
charge and responsible for the management of the affairs of the entity remains
in the LWD.
(5) Initiation of legal action – A NBFC shall, wherever warranted, initiate legal
action against the borrowers / guarantors for foreclosure / recovery of dues
expeditiously.
8. Provision for a transparent mechanism
A NBFC shall put in place a transparent mechanism for the entire process of
identification of wilful defaulters so that the penal provisions are applied in a fair
manner and the scope for discretion is obviated.
15

9. Role of Internal Audit
(1) A NBFC shall require their internal auditors to specifically look into adherence
to instructions for classifying a borrower as a wilful defaulter.
(2) The Audit Committee of the NBFC shall periodically review the cases of wilful
default and recommend steps to be taken to prevent such occurrences and their early
detection should these occur. The review shall focus on identifying root causes of
wilful default and addressing deficiencies, if any, in the wilful defaulter classification
process adopted by the NBFC.
10. Liability of a Guarantor
(1) As per Section 128 of the Indian Contract Act, 1872, the liability of the
guarantor is coextensive with that of the principal debtor unless it is otherwise
provided by the contract.
(2) When a default happens in making payment / repayment by the principal
debtor, a NBFC shall be able to proceed against the guarantor even without
exhausting the remedies against the principal debtor.
(3) Where a NBFC has made a claim on the guarantor on account of the default
made by the principal debtor, the liability of the guarantor is immediate.
(4) In case the said guarantor refuses to comply with the demand made by the
NBFC, such guarantor shall also be considered for classification as a wilful defaulter
by following the mechanism as set out in Paragraphs 5 and 6.
(5) While dealing with the wilful default of a single borrowing company in a Group,
a NBFC shall consider the track record of the individual company, with reference to
its repayment performance to the NBFC. In cases where guarantees furnished by the
companies within the Group on behalf of the wilfully defaulting units are not honoured
when invoked by the NBFC, such Group companies should also be considered for
classification as willful defaulter by following the mechanism set out in Paragraphs 5
and 6.
16

Chapter IV - Reporting of Wilful Defaulters and Large Defaulters
11. Reporting and Dissemination of Credit Information on Large Defaulters
(1) A NBFC shall submit information in Annex I to all credit information companies
(CICs) in respect of the large defaulters at monthly intervals:
(i) a list of suit filed accounts of large defaulters; and
(ii) a list of non-suit filed accounts of large defaulters whose account has been
classified as doubtful or loss (in accordance with the instructions issued by the
Reserve Bank from time to time).
(2) For calculating the threshold of ₹1 crore, the unapplied interest, if any, shall
also be included. In the case of suit-filed accounts, the threshold shall relate to the
amount for which the suits have been filed.
12. Reporting and Dissemination of Credit Information on Wilful Defaulters
(1) A NBFC shall submit at monthly intervals, information in Annex II to all credit
information companies in respect of the wilful defaulters:
(i) a list of wilful defaulters (LWD) in respect of suit filed accounts
(ii) a LWD in respect of non-suit filed accounts
(2) The NBFC shall inform all credit information companies the removal of the
name of the wilful defaulter from the LWD, promptly and not later than thirty days,
from the date when the outstanding amount falls below the threshold of ₹25 lakh or
as notified by Reserve Bank of India from time to time, subject to Paragraph 13(2).
(3) In the event an NBFC in the Middle layer or above is reclassified during a
subsequent review as NBFC-Base Layer, such NBFC shall no longer be eligible to
classify their borrowers as wilful defaulters. However, such NBFC shall continue to
furnish updates pertaining to historical data submitted by them to the CICs.
13. Treatment of compromise settlements
(1) Any account included in LWD, where the NBFC has entered into a compromise
settlement with the borrower, shall be removed from the LWD only when the borrower
has fully paid the compromise amount.
17

(2) Till such time as only part payment is made, name of the borrower shall not be
removed from the LWD even if the outstanding amount becomes less than the
threshold of ₹25 lakh or as notified by Reserve Bank of India from time to time.
(3) The compromise settlement with the wilful defaulter shall satisfy the
requirements contained in the Reserve Bank of India (Non-Banking Financial
Companies – Resolution of Stressed Assets) Directions, 2025.
(4) In cases where a NBFC decides to cancel a compromise settlement due to
non-adherence to the terms of the settlement and revises the amount payable by the
borrower, the reporting shall be with reference to the revised amount.
14. Treatment of defaulted loans transferred
(1) Before transferring a defaulted loan with outstanding of ₹25 lakh and above,
irrespective of its classification as NPA, to other transferees, a NBFC shall internally
conduct a comprehensive investigation from a wilful default perspective. This process
need not necessarily involve a two-stage committee but should ensure a thorough
examination of wilful default aspects for each defaulted loan.
(2) In a case where wilful default is observed, the NBFC shall complete the
process of classification of the borrower as wilful defaulter as per mechanism set out
in Paragraph 5, and report it in the LWD to credit information companies, before
transferring the asset to the transferee(s).
(3) The details of the reporting done must be conveyed to the transferee(s), and
they shall be responsible for reporting it to the credit information companies
thereafter.
(4) Transfer of the defaulted loan shall not be treated as recovery for the purpose
of calculating the threshold limit for classification as wilful defaulter and reporting to
credit information companies, as the loan amount is not yet fully recovered.
(5) A NBFC, which is a transferee in case of a loan in which wilful default has been
observed, shall continue to report the account as a wilful defaulter until the balance
remaining to be recovered in their account plus the amount written off by the
transferor falls below the threshold of ₹25 lakh or as notified by Reserve Bank of India
from time to time, subject to the provisions contained in Paragraph 13.
18

15. Treatment of accounts where resolution is done under Insolvency and
Bankruptcy Code (IBC)/ resolution framework guidelines issued by the
Reserve Bank
(1) In case an account which is included in LWD and has subsequently undergone
liquidation or where the resolution [either under IBC or under the resolution
framework Directions issued by the Reserve Bank] results in a change in the
management and control of the entity / business enterprise, the name of such a
borrower or guarantor who were classified as wilful defaulter [which includes in case
of a company, its promoters and the director (s), and in case of entity (other than
companies), persons who are in charge and responsible for the management of the
affairs of the entity], shall be removed from the LWD after implementation of the
resolution plan under IBC or the resolution framework Directions issued by the
Reserve Bank.
(2) The penal measures as detailed in Paragraph 7(3) shall not be applicable to
such entities / business enterprises after implementation of the resolution plan
involving change in ownership under the IBC or the resolution framework Directions
issued by the Reserve Bank.
Explanation: The resolution framework Directions issued by the Reserve Bank shall
mean any of the following Directions:
(i) Reserve Bank of India (Commercial Banks – Resolution of Stressed Assets)
Directions
(ii) Reserve Bank of India (Small Finance Banks – Resolution of Stressed Assets)
Directions
(iii) Reserve Bank of India (All India Financial Institutions – Resolution of Stressed
Assets) Directions
(iv) Reserve Bank of India (Non-Banking Financial Companies – Resolution of
Stressed Assets) Directions
(3) The penal measures detailed in Paragraph 7 (3) (ii) and (iii) shall continue to
apply to the erstwhile promoter(s) / director(s) / guarantor(s) / persons who were in
charge and responsible for the management of the affairs of the entity / business
19

enterprise, and to the entities they are associated as a promoter or director or as one
in charge and responsible for its management.
16. Responsibility for Correct Reporting
(1) The responsibility for reporting correct information and also ensuring the
accuracy of facts and figures rests with the reporting NBFC.
(2) A NBFC, while furnishing information to credit information companies, shall
ensure the accuracy of the particulars of the directors, and wherever possible, by
cross-checking with the database maintained by the Registrar of Companies.
17. Reporting of Guarantors
A NBFC shall report to credit information companies the details of guarantors who
have failed to honour the commitments thereunder when invoked, as large defaulters
/ wilful defaulters, as the case may be. The details shall be reported as per Annex I
and II.
18. Reporting of Directors
(1) In case of business enterprises registered as companies under the Companies
Act, 2013, a NBFC shall also report in the Director column of Annex I and II, the full
names of the directors to facilitate better identity of persons concerned, subject to the
provisions of these Directions.
(2) To ensure that directors are correctly identified and in no case, persons whose
names appear to be similar to the names of directors appearing in the LWD are
wrongfully denied credit facilities on such grounds, the NBFC shall include the
Director Identification Number (DIN) as one of the fields in the data submitted in
Annex I and II, by them to credit information companies.
20

Chapter V - Preventive Measures and Role of Auditors
19. Preventive Measures
(1) Credit appraisal
(i) While carrying out the credit appraisal, a NBFC shall verify as to whether the
name of any of the directors of a company / guarantors / persons in charge of the
management of affairs of the entity appears in the list of large defaulters / LWD by
way of reference to DIN / PAN, etc.
(ii) In case of any doubt arising on account of identical names, the NBFC shall use
independent sources for confirmation of the identity of directors rather than seeking
a declaration from the borrowing company.
(2) Monitoring End Use of Funds
(i) A NBFC shall closely monitor the end-use of funds and obtain certificates from
borrowers certifying that the funds have been utilised for the purpose for which
they were obtained. In case of the wrong certification by the borrowers, the NBFC
shall consider initiating appropriate legal proceedings, including criminal
proceedings wherever necessary, against the borrowers.
(ii) The requirements and related appropriate measures in ensuring the end-use of
funds by a NBFC shall form a part of its loan policy document. An illustrative list of
measures for monitoring and ensuring end-use of funds by a NBFC are:
(a) Meaningful scrutiny of quarterly progress reports / operating statements /
balance sheets of the borrowers;
(b) Regular inspection of borrowers' assets charged to the NBFC as security;
(c) Periodic scrutiny of borrowers' books of accounts and the 'no-lien' accounts
maintained with other lenders;
(d) Periodic visits to the assisted units;
(e) System of periodic stock audit, in case of working capital finance;
(f) Periodic comprehensive management audit of the 'credit' function of the
NBFC, so as to identify the systemic weaknesses in their credit administration.
21

(iii) In cases of project financing, a NBFC should ensure end use of funds by, inter alia,
obtaining certification from the Chartered Accountants for the purpose. The NBFC
must, however, not just depend on the certificates issued by the Chartered
Accountants but also strengthen their credit risk management system and internal
controls to enhance the quality of their loan portfolio. Further, in all cases,
especially in the case of short-term corporate / clean loans, such an approach must
be supplemented by 'due diligence' on the part of the NBFC itself, and to the extent
possible, such loans must be limited only to those borrowers whose integrity and
reliability are above board.
20. Role of Statutory Auditors
(1) In case any falsification of accounts on the part of the borrowers is observed by
the lender, and the auditors are found to be negligent or deficient in conducting the
audit, the lender shall consider lodging a formal complaint against the statutory
auditors of the borrowers with the National Financial Reporting Authority (NFRA) /
Institute of Chartered Accountants of India (ICAI) to enable them to examine and fix
accountability of the auditor.
(2) Pending disciplinary action by NFRA / ICAI, the complaints shall be forwarded
to the Reserve Bank (Department of Supervision, Central Office) and Indian Banks'
Association (IBA). Before reporting to the Reserve Bank and IBA, lenders shall satisfy
themselves of the involvement of concerned auditors and also provide them with an
opportunity of being heard. In this regard, the lenders should follow normal procedures
and processes, which shall be suitably recorded.
(3) Based on such information received from lenders, IBA shall, in turn, prepare a
caution list of such auditors for circulation among the lenders, who shall consider this
aspect before assigning any work to them.
(4) With a view to monitoring the end-use of funds, if the lender desires a specific
certification from the borrowers' auditors regarding diversion / siphoning of funds by
the borrowers, the lender should award a separate mandate to the auditors for the
purpose. To facilitate such certification by the auditors, the lenders shall ensure that
appropriate covenants in the loan agreements are incorporated to enable the award
of such a mandate by the lenders to the auditor.
22

(5) In addition to the above and with a view to preventing diversion / siphoning of
funds by the borrowers, the lenders are free to engage their own auditors for such
specific certification without relying on certification given by borrowers' auditor.
(6) Depending upon the nature of the borrowers' acts underlying the wilful default
and the quality of evidence available with the lenders in the normal course, the lender
shall consider commissioning a forensic audit of the affairs of the borrowers and their
books of accounts, in respect of accounts with an outstanding above a threshold fixed
by the board approved policy of the lender.
21. Role of third parties
(1) As prescribed in the Reserve Bank of India (Fraud Risk Management in
NBFCs) Directions, 2024 (as updated from time to time), in case of wilful defaults also
there should be some accountability for the third parties engaged by the lender, if
they have played a vital role in credit sanction / disbursement and are found negligent
or deficient in their work or have facilitated the wilful default by the borrower.
(2) The lender shall forward the details of these third parties to the Indian Banks'
Association (IBA) for records, regardless of the membership status of the lender with
the IBA. Based on such information, IBA shall, in turn, prepare caution lists of such
third parties and circulate to all the regulated entities of Reserve Bank who shall
consider this aspect before assigning any work to them.
(3) Before reporting to IBA, lenders shall satisfy itself of the involvement of
concerned third parties and also provide them with an opportunity of being heard. In
this regard, the lenders shall follow due process, which shall be suitably recorded.
23

Chapter VI - Repeal and Other Provisions
22. Repeal and saving
(1) With the issue of these Directions, the existing directions, instructions, and
guidelines relating Treatment of Wilful Defaulters and Large Defaulters as applicable
to Non-Banking Financial Companies stands repealed, as communicated vide
circular DOR.RRC.REC.302/33-01-010/2025-26 dated November 28, 2025. The
directions, instructions and guidelines already repealed vide any of the directions,
instructions, and guidelines listed in the above notification shall continue to remain
repealed.
(2) Notwithstanding such repeal, any action taken or purported to have been
taken, or initiated under the repealed Directions, instructions, or guidelines shall
continue to be governed by the provisions thereof. All approvals or acknowledgments
granted under these repealed lists shall be deemed as governed by these Directions.
Further, the repeal of these directions, instructions, or guidelines shall not in any way
prejudicially affect:
i. any right, obligation or liability acquired, accrued, or incurred thereunder;
ii. any, penalty, forfeiture, or punishment incurred in respect of any contravention
committed thereunder;
iii. any investigation, legal proceeding, or remedy in respect of any such right,
privilege, obligation, liability, penalty, forfeiture, or punishment as aforesaid; and
any such investigation, legal proceedings or remedy may be instituted,
continued, or enforced and any such penalty, forfeiture or punishment may be
imposed as if those directions, instructions, or guidelines had not been repealed.
23. Application of other laws not barred
(1) The provisions of these Directions shall be in addition to, and not in derogation
of the provisions of any other laws, rules, regulations, or directions, for the time being
in force.
24. Interpretations
(1) For the purpose of giving effect to the provisions of these Directions or in order
to remove any difficulties in the application or interpretation of the provisions of these
Directions, the Reserve Bank may, if it considers necessary, issue necessary
24

clarifications in respect of any matter covered herein and the interpretation of any
provision of these Directions given by the Reserve Bank shall be final and binding.
(J.P. Sharma)
Chief General Manager
25

Annex I - Format for submission of List of Large Defaulters
Format for submission of List of Large Defaulters of ₹1 crore and above (suit-
filed and non-suit filed accounts) to all CICs on monthly basis
Field Field Name Type Max Description Remarks
Field
Length
1. Reporting Cycle Alpha Numeric 5 Month for which the The reporting cycle
data is reported data for month of
January 2024,
should be filled as
‘JAN24’
2. Member ID Alpha Numeric 10 The field is required Contains ID of the
to include Reporting member reporting the
Member Code as data
assigned by CICs.
3. Member Name Character 200 Name of the member Must contain the name
of the member who is
reporting the data.
4. Member Branch Character 30 Branch name of the Name of the branch
member should be fed.
5. STATE Character 35 Name of state Name of state in which
branch is situated.
6. Borrower Name Alpha Numeric 1000 Minimum length of The legal name of the
the Name should be borrower to be reported.
2 characters for
individual borrowers
and 4
characters for non-
individual.
7. Borrower PAN Alpha Numeric 10 Must be 10 Permanent Account
characters. The first Number (PAN) as
five characters must defined by the Income
Tax
be letters, followed by
Department
four numbers, and
followed by a letter.
8. Borrower Alpha Numeric 1000 Permanent Address /
Address Registered address of
the borrower
26

9. Outstanding Numeric 8 Should be a Outstanding amount in
Amount Numeric Value ₹ lakh (rounded- off)
10. Suit Status Numeric 2 Valid Values Indicates whether suit
- Suit filed has been filed or not.
– Non-Suit Filed
11. Asset Character 5 Valid Values Asset classification
Classification For Non-Suit
Filed Accounts.
'DOUBT' for
doubtful accounts.
'LOSS' for loss
accounts.
For Suit Filed
Accounts
'DOUBT' for doubtful
accounts. 'LOSS' for
loss accounts.
'SUBST' for
substandard
accounts.
'STD' for standard
accounts.
12. Asset Alpha Numeric 5 Month in which the Indicates the date of
Classification account was asset classification
Date Classified as
'DOUBT'/'LOSS/
SUBSTD/STD' in
The format 'mmmyy'
where mmm stand for
the first 3 characters
of the month. The
date of classification
'march 2000' should
be filled up as
'MAR00'.
13. Other Member Character 1000 The names may be The names of other
fed in abbreviated lenders from whom the
form e.g., BOB for borrower has availed
Bank of Baroda, SBI
credit facility should be
for State Bank of
indicated.
India etc.
14. Director/ Character 1000 Minimum length of Name of
Promoter Name name should be 2 Director/Promoter.
characters
15. Director/ Alpha Numeric 8 DIN Number length DIN of the Director/
Promoter DIN should be 8 Promoter.
16. Director/ Alpha Numeric 10 Must be a minimum PAN of the
Promoter PAN of 10 characters. The Director/Promoter.
first five characters
must be letters,
27

followed by four
numbers, and
followed by a letter.
17. Guarantor Character 1000 Minimum length of Full name of the
Name name should be 2 Guarantor should be
characters
indicated.
18. Guarantor CIN Alpha numeric 21 Corporate Only in case of legal
identification number entities
of guarantor entity
19. Guarantor PAN Alpha Numeric 10 Must be a minimum In case of individual
of 10 characters. The /legal entities
first five characters
must be letters,
followed by four
numbers, and
followed by a letter.
NOTE:
• Reporting structure of the data would be row level, which would enable members/
lenders to report multiple directors and guarantors of the borrower.
• A director other than whole-time director, including an independent director/ nominee
director shall not be included.
• In case of Government undertakings, instead of giving names of Chairman/Director,
etc., a legend 'Govt. of undertaking' should be
mentioned.
• Separate files for suit filed and non-suit filed accounts shall be submitted.
28

Annex II - Format for submission of data on cases of wilful default
Format for submission of data on cases of wilful default (suit-filed and non-suit filed
accounts) to all CICs on a monthly basis
Field Field Name Type Max Description Remarks
Field
Length
1. Reporting Alpha 5 Month for which the The reporting cycle data
Cycle Numeric data is reported for month of January
2024, should be filled as
‘JAN24’.
2. Member ID Alpha 10 The field is required to Contains ID of the
Numeric include Reporting member reporting the
Member Code as data.
assigned by CICs.
3. Member Character 200 Name of member Must contain the name of
Name the member who is
reporting the data.
4. Member Character 30 Branch name of the Name of the branch of the
Branch member member to be fed.
5. STATE Character 35 Name of state Name of state in which
member branch is
situated.
6. Borrower Alpha 1000 Minimum length of the The legal name of the
Name Numeric Name should be borrower to be reported.
2 characters for
individual borrowers and
4 characters for non-
individual.
7. Borrower PAN Alpha 10 Must be 10 Permanent Account
Numeric characters. The first five Number (PAN) as defined
characters must be by the Income Tax
Department
letters, followed by four
numbers, and followed
by a letter.
8. Borrower Alpha 1000 Permanent Address /
Address Numeric Registered address of
the borrower
9. Outstanding Numeric 8 Should be a Numeric Outstanding amount
Amount Value in ₹ lakh
(Rounded off)
29

10. Suit Status Numeric 02 Valid Values 01 - Suit Indicates whether suit
filed has been filed or not.
02 – Non-Suit Filed
11. Other Member Character 1000 The names may be fed The names of other
in abbreviated lenders from whom
form e.g., BOB for Bank the borrower has availed
of Baroda, SBI for State credit facility should be
Bank of India etc. indicated.
12. Director/ Character 1000 Minimum length of name Full name of Director/
Promoter should be 2 characters. Promoter should be
Name indicated.
13. Director/ Alpha 8 DIN Number length 8-digit Director/
Promoter DIN Numeric should be 8 Promoter Identification
Number of the Director.
14. Director/ Alpha 10 Must be 10 PAN of the Director
Promoter PAN Numeric characters. The first five /Promoter.
characters must be
letters, followed by four
numbers, and followed
by a letter.
15. Guarantor Character 1000 Minimum length of name Full name of guarantor
Name should be 2 characters
16. Guarantor CIN Alpha 21 Corporate identification Only in case of legal
Numeric number of guarantor entities
entity
18. Guarantor Alpha 10 Permanent account In case of individual / legal
PAN Numeric number entities
NOTE:
• Reporting structure of the data would be row level, which would enable
members/ lenders to report multiple directors and guarantors of the borrower.
• The data / information should be submitted through Secure File Transfer
Protocol (SFTP).
• Separate files for suit filed and non-suit filed accounts shall be submitted.
30