भारतीय �रज़वर् बैंक
RESERVE BANK OF INDIA
RBI/DOR/2025-26/299
DOR.RET.REC.218/12-01-001/2025-26 November 28, 2025
Reserve Bank of India (Rural Co-operative Banks – Cash Reserve Ratio and
Statutory Liquidity Ratio) Directions, 2025 (Updated as on June 19, 2026)
Table of Contents
Chapter I - Preliminary ........................................................................................................ 2
Chapter II - Cash Reserve Ratio (CRR) ............................................................................. 10
Chapter III - Statutory Liquidity Ratio (SLR) .................................................................. 17
Chapter IV - Procedure for computation of SLR............................................................ 20
Chapter V - Reporting ..................................................................................................... 21
Chapter VI - Penalties ...................................................................................................... 25
Chapter VII - Repeal and Other Provisions ..................................................................... 27
Annex I ................................................................................................................................. 29
Annex II ................................................................................................................................ 33
Annex III ............................................................................................................................... 45

In exercise of the powers conferred by Section 35A read with Section 56
of the Banking Regulation Act, 1949, and pursuant to Section 42 (1) of the Reserve
Bank of India Act, 1934 and Sections 18, 24 and 56 of Banking Regulations Act,
1949, as amended from time to time, and all other provisions / laws enabling the
Reserve Bank of India (hereinafter referred as the ‘RBI’ or ‘Reserve Bank’) in this
regard, the RBI being satisfied that it is necessary and expedient in the public
interest so to do, hereby, issues the Directions hereinafter specified.
Chapter I - Preliminary
A. Short Title and Commencement
1. These Directions shall be called the Reserve Bank of India (Rural Co-operative
Banks – Cash Reserve Ratio and Statutory Liquidity Ratio) Directions, 2025.
2. These Directions shall come into force with immediate effect.
B. Applicability
3. These Directions shall be applicable to Rural Co-operative Banks (hereinafter
collectively referred to as ‘banks’ and individually as a ‘bank’).
In this context, ‘Rural Co-operative Banks’ shall mean State Co-operative Banks
(StCBs) and District Central Co-operative Banks (DCCBs) as defined in the National
Bank for Agriculture and Rural Development Act, 1981.
4. The maintenance of Cash Reserve Ratio (CRR) shall be reported to the RBI
under the following statutory returns:
(1) Form B Return for Scheduled Co-operative Banks.
(2) Form I Return for non-scheduled Co-operative Banks under Section 18 of the
Banking Regulation Act, 1949, read with Section 56 thereof.
5. The maintenance of Statutory Liquidity Ratio (SLR) shall be reported to RBI under
the statutory return Form I Return (for SLR) for all Co-operative Banks under
Section 24 of the Banking Regulation Act, 1949, read with Section 56 thereof.
C. Definitions
6. In these Directions, unless the context otherwise requires, the terms herein shall
bear the meaning assigned to them below:
2

(1) ‘Aggregate Deposits’ shall mean aggregation of demand and time deposits.
(2) ‘Apportionment of Saving Bank Account into demand liability and time liability’: a
bank shall undertake the apportionment of Saving Bank Account into demand liability
and time liability as per the following procedure:
(i) A bank is required to calculate the proportion of its savings bank deposits as
at the close of business on March 31 and September 30, into demand and
time liabilities in terms of Regulation 7 of The Reserve Bank of India
Scheduled Banks’ Regulations, 1951.
(ii) The average of the minimum balances maintained (in each account) in each
of the months during the half year period shall be treated by the bank as the
amount representing the "time liability" portion of the savings bank deposits.
When such an amount is deducted from the average of the actual balances
maintained during the half year period, the difference would represent the
"demand liability" portion.
(iii) The proportions of demand and time liabilities so obtained for each half year
shall be applied for arriving at demand and time liabilities components of
savings bank deposits for all reporting fortnights during the next half year.
(3) ‘Approved Securities/SLR securities’: Following securities shall be considered as
approved securities (approved securities are commonly known as SLR securities):
(i) Dated securities of the Government of India issued from time to time under
the market borrowing programme and the Market Stabilization Scheme;
(ii) Treasury Bills of the Government of India;
(iii) 1State Development Loans (SDLs) of the State Governments issued from time
to time under the market borrowing programme.
(iv) Any other instrument as may be notified by the Reserve Bank of India (as and
when prescribed).
Explanation:
(a) For Form B Return, banks should report the total investment in approved
securities as per its investment book i.e. including encumbered securities.
(b) For SLR purpose, only unencumbered portion of investment in approved
securities would qualify as specified SLR assets. The following SLR
1 State Development Loans are now known as State Government Securities
3

securities, however, shall not be considered as encumbered securities for
SLR purpose and hence they will also qualify as specified SLR asset:
i. Securities lodged with another institution for an advance or any other
credit arrangement to the extent to which such securities have not
been drawn against or availed of;
ii. Securities offered as collateral to the Reserve Bank for availing liquidity
assistance from Marginal Standing Facility (MSF) up to the
permissible percentage of the total Net Demand and Time Liabilities
(NDTL) in India, carved out of the required SLR portfolio of the bank
concerned;
iii. Securities acquired by banks under RBI-LAF and market repo
transactions.
(4) ‘Assets with Banking System’ shall:
(i) include balances with banks in current account, balances with banks and
notified financial institutions in other accounts, funds made available to banking
system by way of loans or deposits repayable at call or short notice of a fortnight
or less and loans other than money at call and short notice made available to the
banking system.
(ii) any other amounts due from the banking system which cannot be classified
under any of the above items are also to be taken as assets with the banking
system.
(5) ‘Average daily balance’ means average of the balances held at the close of
business on each day of a fortnight.
(6) ‘Bank credit in India’ shall mean all outstanding loans and advances including
advances for which provisions have been made and / or refinance has been received
{but excludes rediscounted bills without recourse and advances written off at Head
Office level (i.e. technical write off)}.
(7) ‘Banking System’ or ’Bank/s’ wherever it appears in the prescribed Form B
Return shall mean the banks and any other financial institutions referred to in sub-
clause (i) to (vi) of the Explanation below Section 42(1) (e) of the Reserve Bank of
India Act, 1934.
(8) ‘Cash’ to be maintained by StCBs and DCCBs shall include:
4

(i) cash in hand maintained by a co-operative bank, which is a scheduled bank,
(ii) cash in hand maintained by a co-operative bank, not being a scheduled bank,
in excess of the cash or balance required to be maintained under Section 18
of the Banking Regulation Act, 1949 (10 of 1949) read with Section 56
thereof;
(iii) any balances maintained by a Co-operative bank, which is a scheduled bank,
with the Reserve Bank in excess of the balance required to be maintained by
it under Section 42 of the Reserve Bank of India Act, 1934 (2 of 1934);
(iv) any balances maintained by a Co-operative bank, not being a scheduled
bank, with the Reserve Bank in excess of the balance required to be
maintained by it under Section 18 of the Banking Regulation Act, 1949 (10 of
1949) read with Section 56 thereof;
(v) “Net balances in current accounts” as defined in the Explanation to sub-
section (1) of Section 18 of the Banking Regulation Act, 1949 (10 of 1949)
read with Section 56 thereof, in excess of the balance required to be
maintained by it under the said section; and
(vi) any balances held by a co-operative bank with the RBI under the Standing
Deposit Facility (SDF)
(9) ‘Cash in India / Cash in hand’ shall consist of total amount of rupee notes and
coins held by bank branches / ATMs / Cash deposit machines maintained by banks
in India, including transit cash on the bank’s books as also cash with Business
Correspondents (BCs), but shall exclude cash, where physical possession is with
outsourced vendors / BCs, which is not replenished in the bank’s ATM and / or is not
reflected on the bank’s books.
(10) ‘Corresponding new bank’ shall mean a corresponding new bank constituted
under Section 3 of the Banking Companies (Acquisition and Transfer of
Undertakings) Act,1970 (5 of 1970); or under Section 3 of the Banking Companies
(Acquisition and Transfer of Undertakings) Act, 1980 (40 of 1980).
(11) ‘Demand Deposit’ shall mean a deposit received by the bank which is
withdrawable on demand and shall include current deposits, demand portion of
savings deposits, credit balances in overdrafts, cash credit accounts, deposits
payable at call, overdue deposits, cash certificates, etc.
5

(12) ‘Demand Liabilities’ shall mean liabilities of a bank which are payable on
demand and shall include the following:
(i) current deposits,
(ii) demand liabilities portion of savings bank deposits,
(iii) margins held against letters of credit / guarantees,
(iv) balances in overdue fixed deposits, cash certificates and
cumulative / recurring deposits,
(v) outstanding Telegraphic Transfers (TTs), Mail Transfers (MTs),
Demand Drafts (DDs),
(vi) unclaimed deposits,
(vii) credit balances in the Cash Credit account,
(viii) deposits held as security for advances which are payable on demand.
Explanation: Money at Call and Short Notice from outside the banking system shall
be shown against liability to others.
(13) ‘District Central Co-operative Bank’ shall mean the Principal Co-operative
Society in a district in a State, the primary object of which is financing of other Co-
operative Societies in that district:
Provided that in addition to such Principal Society in a district, or where there is no
such Principal Society in a district, the State Government may declare any one or
more Co-operative Societies carrying on the business of financing other Co-
operative Societies in that district to be also or to be a District Central Co-operative
Bank or District Central Co-operative Banks within the meaning of this definition.
(14) 2‘Fortnight’ means the period from the first day to the fifteenth day of each
calendar month or sixteenth day to the last day of each calendar month, both days
inclusive.
(15) ‘Investment in India’ shall consist of investment in approved government
securities and other approved securities (as explained below). These shall include
both encumbered and unencumbered securities as per the bank’s investment book.
(Except securities acquired by banks under RBI-LAF and market repo).
2 Amended with effect from December 15, 2025 vide Reserve Bank of India (Rural Co-operative Banks – Cash
Reserve Ratio and Statutory Liquidity Ratio) (Amendment) Directions, 2025 dated December 11, 2025
6

(16) ‘Investment in India in other Government Securities’ shall mean Investment in
Government securities which are not approved securities (such as SDLs issued as
UDAY bonds).
(17) ‘Liquidity Adjustment Facility (LAF)’ shall mean fixed and variable rate Repo
operations (for injection of liquidity) and reverse repo operations (for absorption of
liquidity) conducted by the Reserve Bank of India from time to time.
(18) ‘Marginal standing facility’ shall mean the facility under which the eligible
banks can avail liquidity support from the Reserve Bank against excess SLR
holdings. Additionally, they can also avail overnight liquidity by dipping into their
stipulated SLR, up to a certain per cent of their respective NDTL outstanding at the
last day of the second preceding fortnight. The rate of interest under MSF will be
above the LAF repo rate, as decided by the RBI from time to time.
(19) ‘Market borrowing programme’ shall mean the domestic rupee loans raised by
the Government of India and the State Governments from the public and managed
by the Reserve Bank through issue of marketable securities, governed by the
provisions of the Government Securities Act, 2006, Public Debt Act, 1944 and the
Regulations framed under those Acts, through an auction or any other method, as
specified in the notification issued in this regard.
(20) ‘Net balance in current accounts’ shall have the same meaning assigned in
explanation (c) to Section 18 of the Banking Regulation Act, 1949 read with Section
56 thereof.
(21) ‘Other Approved Securities’ shall mean Government Securities, other than the
securities mentioned in paragraph 6(3) above, subject to the condition that they are
notified as approved securities.
(22) ‘Other Demand and Time Liabilities (ODTL)’ shall include the following:
(i) Interest accrued on deposits, bills payable, unpaid dividends, suspense
account balances representing amounts due to other banks or public, net
credit balances in branch adjustment account, and any amounts due to the
banking system which are not in the nature of deposits or borrowing.
(ii) The balance outstanding in the blocked account pertaining to segregated
outstanding credit entries for more than five years in inter-branch adjustment
7

account, the margin money on bills purchased/discounted and gold borrowed
by banks from abroad. The conversion rate of gold into rupees is to be done
by crossing the London AM fixing for Gold/USD rate with the rupee-dollar
reference rate announced by Financial Benchmarks India Private Limited
(FBIL).
(iii) Borrowings through instruments qualifying for Upper Tier 2 and Tier 2 capital.
Explanation:
(a) Such liabilities may arise due to items like collection of bills on behalf of
other banks, interest due to other banks and so on. If a bank cannot
segregate the liabilities to the banking system from the total of ODTL, the
entire ODTL may be shown against item II(c) 'Other Demand and Time
Liabilities' of the Return in Form ‘B’.
(b) Cash collaterals received under collateralised derivative transactions should
be included in the bank’s NDTL for the purpose of reserve requirements as
these are in the nature of ‘outside liabilities’. Interest accrued on deposits
should be calculated on each reporting fortnight (as per the interest
calculation methods applicable to various types of accounts) so that the
bank’s liability in this regard is fairly reflected in the total NDTL of the same
fortnightly return.
(23) ‘Primary Co-operative Bank’ shall mean a co-operative society, other than a
primary agricultural credit society satisfying the following conditions:
(i) the primary object or principal business of which is the transaction of banking
business;
(ii) the paid-up share capital and reserves of which are not less than one lakh of
rupees; and
(iii) the bye-laws of which do not permit admission of any other co-operative
society as a member:
Provided that this sub clause shall not apply to the admission of a co-
operative bank as a member by reason of such co-operative bank subscribing
to the share capital of such co-operative society out of funds provided by the
State Government for the purpose.
(24) ‘Scheduled Bank’ means a bank included in the Second Schedule to the
Reserve Bank of India Act, 1934.
8

(25) ‘State Co-operative Bank’ shall mean the Principal Co-operative Society in a
State, the primary object of which is the financing of other Co-operative Societies in
the State:
Provided that in addition to such Principal Society in a State, or where there is no
such Principal Society in a State, the State Government may declare any one or
more Co-operative Societies carrying on business in that State to be also or to be a
State Co-operative Bank or State Co-operative Banks within the meaning of this
definition.
(26) ‘Time Deposits’ shall mean deposits other than demand deposits.
(27) ‘Time Liabilities’ of a bank shall include those liabilities which are payable
otherwise than on demand and shall include the following:
i. fixed deposits,
ii. cash certificates,
iii. cumulative and recurring deposits,
iv. time liabilities portion of savings bank deposits,
v. staff security deposits,
vi. margin held against letters of credit, if not payable on demand,
vii. deposits held as securities for advances which are not payable on demand,
and
viii. gold deposits.
(28) All other expressions unless defined herein shall have the same meaning as
have been assigned to them under the Banking Regulation Act or the Reserve Bank
of India Act, or any statutory modification or re-enactment thereto or as used in
commercial parlance, as the case may be.
9

Chapter II - Cash Reserve Ratio (CRR)
A. Cash Reserve Ratio (CRR)
7. Every bank shall maintain in India by way of cash reserve, a sum equivalent to
such percent of the total of its NDTL in India, in such manner and for such dates, as
the Reserve Bank in terms of Section 42(1) of the RBI Act, 1934 and Section 18(1)
of BR Act, 1949 [including provisions of Section 18 (1) of the BR Act as applicable to
cooperative banks], may specify, by notification in the Official Gazette, from time to
time having regard to the needs of securing the monetary stability in the country.
B. Incremental CRR
8. In terms of Section 42(1A) of RBI Act, 1934, the Reserve Bank may require the
scheduled banks to maintain, in addition to the balances prescribed under Section
42(1) of the Act, an additional average daily balance, the amount of which shall not
be less than the rate specified by the Reserve Bank in the notification published in
the Gazette of India from time to time.
Provided that such additional balance shall be calculated with reference to the
excess of the total of NDTL of the bank as shown in the Returns referred to in
Section 42(2) of the RBI Act, 1934 over the total of its NDTL at the close of the
business on the date specified in the notification.
C. Maintenance of CRR
9. Every scheduled bank shall maintain in India with the Reserve Bank, an average
daily balance, the amount of which shall not be less than 3.75 per cent, 3.5 per cent,
3.25 per cent and 3.0 per cent of its NDTL, as on the last day of the second
preceding fortnight, effective from the reporting fortnight beginning September 6,
October 4, November 1 and November 29, 2025, respectively.
10. Every co-operative bank, (not being a scheduled co-operative bank), shall
maintain in India on daily basis by way of cash reserve with itself; or by way of
balance in current account with the Reserve Bank or the state co-operative bank of
the State concerned; or by way of net balance in current accounts; or in one or more
of the aforesaid ways, the amount of which shall not be less than 3.75 per cent, 3.5
per cent, 3.25 per cent and 3.0 per cent of its NDTL, as on the last day of the second
10

preceding fortnight, effective from the reporting fortnight beginning September 6,
October 4, November 1 and November 29, 2025, respectively.
D. Maintenance of Minimum CRR on Daily Basis
11. Every scheduled bank shall maintain minimum CRR of not less than 90 percent
of the required CRR on all days during the reporting fortnight, in such a manner that
the average of CRR maintained daily shall not be less than the CRR prescribed by
the Reserve Bank.
E. Computation of Net Demand and Time Liabilities (NDTL)
12. NDTL of a bank includes (a) liabilities towards the banking system net of assets
with the banking system as defined in Section 42 of the RBI Act, 1934 for scheduled
banks or Section 18 of the Banking Regulation Act, 1949 read with Section 56
thereof for non-scheduled co-operative banks and (b) liabilities towards others in the
form of demand and time deposits or borrowings or other miscellaneous items of
liabilities.
13. For the purpose of these Directions, the Reserve Bank may specify from time to
time with reference to any transaction or class of transactions that such transaction
or transactions shall be regarded as liability in India of a bank.
14. If any question arises as to whether any transaction or transactions shall be
regarded, for the purpose of these Directions, as liability in India of a bank, the bank
shall approach the RBI. The decision of the Reserve Bank thereon shall be final.
15. Loans / borrowings from abroad by banks in India shall be reckoned as
'liabilities to others' and shall be subject to reserve requirements. On the other hand,
lending to banks abroad will not be considered as assets with the banking system
and hence will not be allowed to be netted out from inter-bank liabilities.
16. Upper Tier II instruments raised and maintained in India / abroad shall be
reckoned as liability for the computation of NDTL for the purpose of reserve
requirements.
17. The balance amount in respect of the drafts issued by the accepting bank on its
correspondent bank under the Remittance Facilities Scheme and remaining unpaid
shall be reckoned as ‘Liability to others in India’ for the computation of NDTL. The
amount received by correspondent banks shall be reckoned as ‘Liability to the
11

Banking System’ and this liability may be netted off by the correspondent banks
against the inter-bank assets.
18. Sums placed by banks for issuing drafts / interest / dividend warrants shall be
treated as 'Assets with banking system' and banks shall have the option to net them
off from their inter-bank liabilities.
19. The calculation of the proportion of demand liabilities and time liabilities by
scheduled banks in respect of their savings bank deposits on the basis of the
position as at the close of business on 30th September and 31st March every year
shall continue with interest application on savings bank deposits on a daily product
basis.
F. Liabilities not to be included for NDTL computation
20. The liabilities mentioned below shall not form part of liabilities of a bank for the
purpose of CRR and SLR:
(1) Paid up capital, reserves, borrowings through instruments qualifying for Tier1
and additional Tier1 capital; any credit balance in the Profit & Loss Account of the
bank; amount of any loan / refinance taken from RBI, Exim Bank, NHB, NABARD,
and SIDBI;
Provided that the funds collected by various branches of the bank or other banks for
the issue and held pending finalization of allotment of the additional Tier1 preference
shares shall have to be taken into account for the purpose of calculation of reserve
requirements.
(2) In the case of a State Co-operative Bank/District Central Co-operative Bank,
any loan taken from the State Government or National Co-operative Development
Corporation, any deposit of money representing reserve fund maintained by any co-
operative society within the area of operation of the bank. In the case of a District
Central Co-operative bank, also an advance taken by it from the concerned State
Co-operative Bank.
In respect of any advance granted by the State Co-operative Bank / District Central
Co-operative Bank against balance maintained with it, such balance to the extent of
amount outstanding in it.
Provided that any advance or other credit arrangement drawn and availed against
approved securities shall not be included for NDTL computation for SLR purposes (in
12

case of Scheduled StCBs) and for both CRR and SLR purposes (in case of other
StCBs / District Central Co-operative Banks).
(3) The loan / refinance taken by a Scheduled Co-operative Bank from NaBFID
and 3other development financial institution as defined in section 2(cccii) of the RBI
Act, 1934 will be excluded from the NDTL computation for CRR only (not for SLR).
Further, loan / refinance taken by a non-scheduled co-operative bank from NaBFID
and other development financial institution as defined in section 2(cccii) of the RBI
Act, 1934 will not be excluded from the NDTL computation for CRR / SLR;
(4) Net income tax provision;
(5) Amount received from Deposit Insurance and Credit Guarantee Corporation
(DICGC) towards claims and held by the bank pending adjustments thereof;
(6) Amount received from Export Credit Guarantee Corporation (ECGC) by invoking
the guarantee;
(7) Amount received from an insurance company on ad-hoc settlement of
claims pending judgment of the Court;
(8) Amount received from the Court Receiver;
(9) The liabilities arising on account of utilization of limits under Bankers’
Acceptance Facility (BAF);
(10) Subsidy released by NABARD under Investment Subsidy Scheme for
Construction/Renovation/Expansion of Rural Godowns;
(11) Subsidy released by Central / State Government which is kept in zero percent
fixed deposit receipt (FDR) account, if the terms / conditions prescribed in this regard
by the Government and the accounting / operating treatment given to zero per cent
FDR account are same as that of zero per cent Subsidy Reserve Fund account;
(12) Net unrealised gain/loss arising from derivatives transaction under trading
portfolio;
(13) Income flows received in advance such as annual fees and other charges
which are not refundable;
3 Amended with effect from January 22, 2026 vide Reserve Bank of India (Rural Co-operative Banks – Cash
Reserve Ratio and Statutory Liquidity Ratio) Amendment Directions, 2026 dated January 22, 2026.
13

(14) Bill rediscounted by a bank with eligible financial institutions as approved by
RBI; and
(15) Amount received by the eligible banks from National Credit Guarantee
Trustee Company Limited (NCGTC) by invoking the guarantee towards claims and
pending adjustments thereof.
G. Exempted Categories
21. Scheduled Banks are exempted from maintaining CRR on the following
liabilities:
(1) Net of liabilities to the banking system from the assets with the banking system
defined in Section 42 (1) (e) of the RBI Act, 1934 as under:
(i) Liabilities to the banking system as computed under clause (e) of explanation
to section 42(1) of the RBI Act, 1934.
The aggregate of the "liabilities" of a scheduled bank, which is a State Co-
operative Bank, to:
(a) the State Bank of India
(b) a corresponding new bank constituted by Section 3 of the Banking
Companies (Acquisition and Transfer of Undertakings) Act, 1970, and a
corresponding new bank constituted by Section 3 of the Banking
Companies (Acquisition and Transfer of Undertakings) Act, 1980,
(c) a banking company as defined in Clause (c) of Section 5 of the Banking
Regulation Act, 1949 (10 of 1949),
(d) any other financial institution notified by the Central Government in this
behalf,
shall be reduced by the aggregate of the liabilities of all such banks and
institutions to the State co-operative bank.
(2) Credit balances in Asian Clearing Union (ACU) (US$) Accounts;
(3) Funds Borrowed under market repo against Government securities;
(4) The banks are advised that with effect from the reporting fortnight beginning
July 30, 2022, incremental FCNR (B) deposits as also NRE Term deposits with
reference to base date of July 1, 2022, mobilised by banks are exempt from
maintenance of CRR and SLR. The exemptions are valid for deposits raised till
November 04, 2022. The exemption on reserves maintenance will be available for
14

the original deposit amounts till such time the deposits are held in the bank’s books;
(5) 4Fresh FCNR (B) deposits of minimum tenor of three years and maximum tenor
of five years mobilized (including deposits that are renewed upon maturity) by the
banks between June 8, 2026 and September 30, 2026 are exempt from
maintenance of CRR from the reporting fortnight beginning July 1, 2026 (i.e., based
on the NDTL computation as on June 15, 2026) and subsequent fortnights
thereafter. The exemption on reserves maintenance is available for the original
deposit amounts till such time the deposits are held in the bank books
(6) 5Fresh Non-Resident (External) Rupee (NRE) term deposits of tenor of three
years or more mobilized (including deposits that are renewed upon maturity) by the
banks between June 19, 2026 and September 30, 2026 are exempt from
maintenance of CRR from the reporting fortnight beginning July 16, 2026 (i.e., based
on the NDTL computation as on June 30, 2026) and subsequent fortnights
thereafter. The exemption on reserves maintenance is available for the original
deposit amounts till such time the deposits are held in the bank books. Any transfer
from Non-Resident (Ordinary) (NRO) accounts to NRE accounts will not qualify for
such exemptions.
H. CRR Computation
22. In order to improve cash management by banks, as a measure of simplification,
a lag of one fortnight is allowed to banks to maintain CRR based on the NDTL of the
last day of the second preceding fortnight.
23. Reserve Bank of India does not pay any interest on the CRR balances
maintained by scheduled StCBs.
I. Loans out of FCNR (B) Deposits and Inter-Bank Foreign Currency (IBFC)
Deposits
24. Loans out of Foreign Currency Non–Resident Accounts (Banks), (FCNR [B]
Deposits Scheme) and Inter-Bank Foreign Currency (IBFC) deposits shall be
included as part of bank credit for the purpose of these Directions. Banks shall use
4 Amended with effect from June 8, 2026 vide Reserve Bank of India (Rural Co-operative Banks – Cash Reserve
Ratio and Statutory Liquidity Ratio) Second Amendment Directions, 2026 dated June 8, 2026
5 Amended with effect from June 19, 2026 vide Reserve Bank of India (Rural Co-operative Banks – Cash Reserve
Ratio and Statutory Liquidity Ratio) Third Amendment Directions, 2026 dated June 19, 2026
15

the conversion rate announced by Financial Benchmarks India Private Limited (FBIL)
for the purpose of converting foreign assets / liabilities for reporting in the statutory
returns mentioned at paragraphs 4 and 5 of these directions. For conversion of
assets / liabilities in other currencies, banks may use New York Closing Rate
pertaining to the day end of the reporting day for converting such currencies into
USD and then use the reference rate of FBIL for USD/ INR for the same day for
conversion into INR.
16

Chapter III - Statutory Liquidity Ratio (SLR)
25. Every bank, in addition to the cash reserves which it is required to maintain
under these Directions, shall maintain in India, assets, the value of which shall not
be less than such percentage not exceeding 40 percent of the total of its demand
and time liabilities in India as on the last day of the second preceding fortnight as
the Reserve Bank may, by notification in the Official Gazette, specify from time to
time and such assets shall be maintained in such form and such manner, as may be
specified in such notification.
A. SLR - Eligible Assets
26. Every state co-operative bank and district central co-operative bank shall
maintain in India assets (hereinafter referred to as ‘SLR assets’) the value of which
shall not, at the close of business on any day, be less than 18 percent of its total net
demand and time liabilities in India as on the last day of the second preceding
fortnight in accordance with the method of valuation specified by RBI from time to
time.
B. Marginal Standing Facility (MSF)
27. Banks permitted by Reserve Bank shall have the option to participate in the
Marginal Standing Facility (MSF) Scheme introduced by the Reserve Bank. The
features of the scheme are:
(1) The eligible banks shall have the option to borrow up to two per cent of their
respective NDTL outstanding at the end of the second preceding fortnight.
(2) The eligible entities shall also continue to access overnight funds under this
facility against their excess SLR holdings.
(3) In the event of banks’ SLR holding falling below the statutory requirement up to
two percent of their NDTL, banks shall not have the obligation to seek a specific
waiver for default in SLR compliance arising out of use of this facility in terms of
notification issued under sub section (2A) of Section 24 of the Banking Regulation
Act, 1949.
C. SLR Assets
28. SLR assets shall be maintained by StCBs and DCCBs as under:
17

(1) Cash, or;
(2) Gold as defined in Section 5(g) of the Banking Regulation Act, 1949 (AACS)
(10 of 1949) valued at a price not exceeding the current market price: or;
(3) Unencumbered investment in approved securities as defined in section 5(a) of
the Banking Regulation Act, 1949 (10 of 1949) read with section 56 thereof:
Provided that the instruments that have been acquired from Reserve Bank of India
under reverse repo, shall be considered as eligible assets for SLR maintenance.
Provided further that the following securities shall not be treated as encumbered
for the purpose of maintenance of SLR assets, namely
(i) securities lodged with another institution for an advance or any other credit
arrangement to the extent to which such securities have not been drawn
against or availed of;
(ii) securities offered as collateral to the Reserve Bank for availing liquidity
assistance under MSF up to the permissible percentage of the total NDTL in
India, carved out of the required SLR portfolio of the bank concerned;
(iii) Securities acquired by banks under RBI-LAF and market repo transactions
(4) Explanation- For the purpose of these Directions
(i) Securities lodged in the Gilt Account of the bank maintained with Clearing
Corporation of India Ltd. (CCIL) under Constituent Subsidiary General Ledger
account (CSGL) facilities remaining unencumbered at the end of any day can
be reckoned for SLR purposes by the bank concerned.
(ii) Funds borrowed under repo including tri-party repo in government securities
shall be exempted from CRR/SLR computation and the security acquired
under repo shall be eligible for SLR provided the security is primarily eligible
for SLR as per the provisions of the Act under which it is required to be
maintained.
(iii) Borrowings by a bank through repo in corporate bonds and debentures shall
be reckoned as liabilities for Cash Reserve Ratio/ Statutory Liquidity Ratio
requirement and, to the extent these liabilities are to the banking system, they
shall be netted as per Section 42 (1) (d) of the RBI Act, 1934.
(iv) All banks shall maintain investments in Government Securities only in
Subsidiary General Ledger (SGL) Accounts with Reserve Bank or in CSGL
18

Accounts of scheduled commercial banks, Primary Dealers (PDs), State Co-
operative Banks, and Stock Holding Corporation of India Ltd.(SHCIL) or in the
dematerialised accounts with depositories such as National Securities
Depositories Ltd (NSDL), Central Depository Services Ltd. (CDSL), and
National Securities Clearing Corporation Ltd. (NSCCL).
(v) 6Banks shall report the SDF balances held by banks with RBI in Form I, as it
is an eligible asset for SLR maintenance. The balances held by banks with
RBI under the SDF shall not be eligible for Cash Reserve Ratio (CRR)
maintenance. Further, scheduled banks are not required to report SDF
balances held by them with RBI, in Form B return.
(5) Note:
(i) With a view to disseminating information on the SLR status of a Government
security, it has been decided that:
(a) the SLR status of securities issued by the Government of India and the
State Governments will be indicated in the Press Release issued by the
Reserve Bank of India at the time of issuance of the securities; and,
(b) an updated and current list of the SLR securities will be posted on the
Reserve Bank's website (www.rbi.org.in) under the link "Database on Indian
Economy” under the head ‘Statistics’.
(ii) The cash management bill shall be treated as Government of India Treasury
Bill and thus be reckoned as SLR security.
6 Amended with effect from January 22, 2026 vide Reserve Bank of India (Rural Co-operative Banks – Cash
Reserve Ratio and Statutory Liquidity Ratio) Amendment Directions, 2026 dated January 22, 2026.
19

Chapter IV - Procedure for computation of SLR
A. Computation of NDTL for SLR
29. The procedure for computation of NDTL for SLR shall be as below:
(1) Total NDTL for the purpose of SLR under Section 24 (2A) of Banking
Regulation Act, 1949, shall be computed on the similar procedure as followed for
CRR.
(2) The liabilities mentioned under paragraph 20 of these Directions shall not form
part of liabilities for the purpose of SLR also.
(3) Banks shall include their inter-bank assets of term deposits and term lending of
all maturities in 'Assets with the Banking System' for computation of NDTL for SLR
purpose.
(4) Additionally, liabilities mentioned at paragraphs 21(3), (4), 7(5) and 8(6) are
exempt from SLR requirement.
B. Classification and Valuation of SLR eligible securities
30. Classification and valuation of approved securities shall be in accordance with
the extant instructions Reserve Bank of India (Rural Co-operative Banks –
Classification, Valuation and Operation of Investment Portfolio) Directions,
2025, as applicable.
7 Amended with effect from June 8, 2026 vide Reserve Bank of India (Rural Co-operative Banks – Cash Reserve
Ratio and Statutory Liquidity Ratio) Second Amendment Directions, 2026 dated June 8, 2026
8 Amended with effect from June 19, 2026 vide Reserve Bank of India (Rural Co-operative Banks – Cash Reserve
Ratio and Statutory Liquidity Ratio) Third Amendment Directions, 2026 dated June 19, 2026
20

Chapter V - Reporting
A. Fortnightly CRR Return in Form B / Form I
31. Under Section 42(2) of the RBI Act, 1934, every Scheduled State Co-operative
bank shall submit to Reserve Bank a Return in Form ‘B’ (Annex I) at the close of
business on 9last day of each fortnight within five days after the date of the relevant
fortnight to which it relates..
32. Where such last day of each fortnight is a public holiday under the Negotiable
Instruments Act, 1881, for one or more offices of the bank, the Return shall give at
the close of business of the preceding working day’s figure in respect of such office
or offices, but shall nevertheless be deemed to relate to last day of such fortnight.
33. The Return in Form ‘B’ shall be submitted to Reserve Bank along with:
(1) the Memorandum to the Return in Form ‘B’ giving details of paid-up capital,
reserves, time deposits comprising short-term (of contractual maturity of one year or
less) and long-term (of contractual maturity of more than one year), certificates of
deposits, NDTL, total CRR requirement, etc.,
(2) Annex I to the Return in Form ‘B’ showing all foreign currency liabilities and
assets, and
(3) Annex II to return in Form ‘B’ giving details about investment in approved
securities, investment in unapproved securities, memo items such as subscription to
shares / debentures / bonds in primary market and subscriptions through private
placement.
Note: Format of Memorandum, Annex I and Annex II to return in Form ‘B’ is
available under ‘List of Return submitted to RBI’ on the RBI website.
34. 10[Deleted].
35. Every co-operative bank, not being a scheduled co-operative bank, shall submit
a Return in Form I (Annex II) together with Appendix I, II and III, to the regional
9 Amended with effect from December 15, 2025 vide Reserve Bank of India (Rural Co-operative Banks – Cash
Reserve Ratio and Statutory Liquidity Ratio) (Amendment) Directions, 2025 dated December 11, 2025
10 Deleted with effect from December 15, 2025 vide Reserve Bank of India (Rural Co-operative Banks – Cash
Reserve Ratio and Statutory Liquidity Ratio) (Amendment) Directions, 2025 dated December 11, 2025
21

office concerned of the Reserve Bank, not later than 20 days after the end of the
month to which it relates showing the position, inter alia, of cash reserves maintained
by the bank under Section 18 of the B.R. Act, 1949 read with Section 56, ibid, as at
the close of business on last day of each fortnight during the month. Where such day
is a public holiday under Negotiable Instruments Act, 1881 for one or more offices of
the bank, the Return shall give the preceding day’s figure in respect of such office or
offices, but shall nevertheless be deemed to relate to last day of that fortnight.
36. Whenever there are wide variations between the sources and uses of funds as
being reported in the fortnightly Return and the variations exceed 20 per cent, the
banks concerned should give reasons therefor in the Return.
37. In terms of Regulation 5(i) (c) of the Scheduled Banks Regulations,1951 and
Regulation 4(1) of the Banking Regulation (Co-operative Societies) Rules, 1966, the
banks are required to furnish a list of the names, the officials designations and
specimen signatures of the officers of the banks who are authorized to sign on behalf
of the banks, Returns prescribed under Section 42(2) of the RBI Act, 1934, and
Section 18 and 24 of the Banking Regulation Act, 1949. The bank has to submit to
Reserve Bank fresh set of signatures whenever there is change in the incumbency.
37 A. 11Under the new reporting structure, as amended vide Banking Laws
(Amendment) Act 2025, there shall be no Provisional or Final or Special Form B
return. The banks are required to submit single Form B return. The new versions of
Form B and Form I returns are available on the Centralised Information Management
System (CIMS) portal with new return codes. The banks are required to submit
fortnightly Form B return from December 15, 2025 and monthly Form I return from
December 2025 on the CIMS portal.
37 B. 12The maintenance of CRR and SLR during the fortnight December 16-31,
2025 and the first fortnight of January 2026 (i.e., January 1-15, 2026) is to be done
by the banks, based on the Net Demand and Time Liabilities (NDTL) as on
November 28, 2025 and December 15, 2025, respectively. From the subsequent
fortnights starting from January 16, 2026, the maintenance shall be done, as
11 Inserted with effect from December 15, 2025 vide Reserve Bank of India (Rural Co-operative Banks – Cash
Reserve Ratio and Statutory Liquidity Ratio) (Amendment) Directions, 2025 dated December 11, 2025
12 Inserted with effect from December 15, 2025 vide Reserve Bank of India (Rural Co-operative Banks – Cash
Reserve Ratio and Statutory Liquidity Ratio) (Amendment) Directions, 2025 dated December 11, 2025
22

presently applicable, i.e., based on the NDTL as on the last day of the second
preceding fortnight
37 C. 13During the transition period of three days i.e., December 13-15, 2025, the
maintenance of CRR and SLR is to be done by the banks, based on the Net
Demand and Time Liabilities (NDTL) as on November 28, 2025. Further, the banks
shall maintain minimum CRR of not less than hundred per cent of the required CRR
during the transition period.The banks shall also submit Form B return for December
12, 2025, as per the extant reporting structure. Further, the banks are advised to
submit Form I return of December 2025 on CIMS portal, both with old and new return
codes.
B. Return in Form I (SLR)
38. All Co-operative Banks (scheduled and non-scheduled), are required to submit
a Return in Form I (Annex II) under Section 24 of the BR Act, 1949 (AACS) every
month showing the position of liquid assets maintained under the said Section as at
the close of business on the last day of each fortnight during the month not later than
twenty days after the end of the month to which it relates.
Note: In respect of Non-Scheduled rural co-operative banks, Return in Form I is
common for reporting cash reserves and statutory liquid assets.]
C. Correctness of computation of NDTL to be certified by Statutory Auditors
39. The Statutory Auditors shall verify and certify that all items of outside liabilities,
as per the bank’s books had been duly compiled by the bank and correctly reflected
under NDTL in the fortnightly / monthly statutory returns submitted to Reserve Bank
for the financial year.
D. Register for daily position of liquidity
40. All co-operative banks shall maintain a register, as per format given in Annex
III showing the daily position of cash reserve and liquid assets maintained under
Sections 18 and 24 of the Banking regulation Act, 1949 read with Section 56 thereof
which shall be put up daily to Chief Executive Officer, who is responsible for ensuring
13 Inserted with effect from December 12, 2025 vide Reserve Bank of India (Rural Co-operative Banks – Cash
Reserve Ratio and Statutory Liquidity Ratio) (Amendment) Directions, 2025 dated December 11, 2025
23

compliance with the statutory liquidity requirements at the close of business every
day.
24

Chapter VI - Penalties
A. Penalties for default in CRR Maintenance
41. Every bank is liable to pay to the Reserve Bank, penal interest as mentioned
below, if the daily balance of cash reserve (CRR) held by the bank during any
fortnight is below the minimum prescribed by or under these Directions.
(1) Penal interest shall be recovered from all Scheduled State Co-operative Banks in
the event of shortfall in maintenance of prescribed CRR on a daily basis for that day
at the rate of three percent per annum above the Bank Rate on the amount by which
the amount actually maintained falls short of the prescribed minimum on that day
and if the shortfall continues on the next succeeding day/s, penal interest shall be
recovered at the rate of five percent per annum above the Bank Rate.
(2) In cases of shortfall in maintenance of CRR on average basis during a fortnight,
penal interest will be recovered as envisaged in sub-section (3) of Section 42 of
Reserve Bank of India Act, 1934.
(3) In the case of a co-operative bank, not being a scheduled co-operative bank, the
bank shall be liable to pay to the Reserve Bank, penal interest as envisaged in sub-
section (1-A) of Section 18 read with Section 56 of the B.R. Act, 1949, if the daily
balance of CRR maintained by the bank falls below the prescribed minimum CRR.
42. Banks are required to furnish the particulars such as date, amount, percentage,
reason for default in maintenance of requisite CRR and also action taken to avoid
recurrence of such default.
43. Under the provisions of Section 42(3A) of the RBI Act, 1934, penal interest at
the increased rate of five per cent above the Bank Rate become payable and if the
default still continues during the next succeeding fortnight:
(1) Every Director, Manager or Secretary of the scheduled bank who is knowingly
and willfully a party to the default, shall be punishable with fine which may extend to
₹500 and with a further fine which may extend to ₹500 for each subsequent fortnight
during which default continues.
(2) The Reserve Bank may prohibit a scheduled bank from receiving any fresh
deposit after the said fortnight, and if default is made by the bank in complying with
25

the prohibition referred to in this clause, every director and officer of the bank who is
knowingly and willfully a party to such default or who through negligence or otherwise
contributes to such default shall in respect of each such default be punishable with
fine which may extend to ₹500 and with a further fine which may extend to ₹500 for
each day after the first, on which a deposit received in contravention of such
prohibition is retained by the scheduled bank.
44. Failure to submit the Return/late submission of the Return shall attract the
provisions of Section 42(4) of RBI Act, 1934 and banks are liable for imposition of
penalties as indicated therein.
In case of non-scheduled co-operative banks, failure to submit the prescribed
statutory returns in time under Section 18 and 24 of the Banking Regulation Act,
1949 read with Section 56 thereof, attracts the provisions of Section 46(4) of the
Banking Regulation Act, 1949 (AACS), and the banks are liable to imposition of
penalties as indicated therein.
B. Penalties for default in SLR Maintenance
45. On the failure of the bank to maintain as on any day, the amount of SLR
required to be maintained by a bank, the bank shall be liable to pay to the Reserve
Bank in respect of that default, the penal interest as envisaged under Section 24
read with Section 56 of the BR Act, 1949.
46. Failure to submit the prescribed return in time will attract the provisions of
Section 46(4) of the Act ibid.
47. Where it is observed that banks are persistently defaulting despite instructions
and repeated advice, the Reserve Bank in addition to levy of penalty on such
defaulting banks, may be constrained to consider cancelling the licence in case of
licensed banks and refuse licence in case of unlicensed banks under Section 22 of
the Act, ibid. The banks should, therefore, in their own interest ensure maintenance
of statutory liquidity ratio at prescribed rates and be very prompt in submission of
required Return to Regional Office concerned of Reserve Bank.
Disclaimer: It is hereby advised that mere inclusion of any item in the above
Master Direction should not be construed as a permission to undertake all such
activities by a banking entity.
26

Chapter VII - Repeal and Other Provisions
A. Repeal and saving
48. With the issue of these Directions, the existing Directions, instructions, and
guidelines relating to Cash Reserve Ratio and Statutory Liquidity Ratio as applicable
to Rural Co-operative Banks stand repealed, as communicated vide circular
DOR.RRC.REC.302/33-01-010/2025-26 dated November 28, 2025. The Directions,
instructions and guidelines repealed prior to the issue of these Directions shall
continue to remain repealed.
49. Notwithstanding such repeal, any action taken or purported to have been taken,
or initiated under the repealed Directions, instructions, or guidelines shall continue to
be governed by the provisions thereof. All approvals or acknowledgments granted
under these repealed lists shall be deemed as governed by these Directions.
Further, the repeal of these directions, instructions, or guidelines shall not in any way
prejudicially affect:
(i) any right, obligation or liability acquired, accrued, or incurred thereunder;
(ii) any, penalty, forfeiture, or punishment incurred in respect of any contravention
committed thereunder;
(iii) any investigation, legal proceeding, or remedy in respect of any such right,
privilege, obligation, liability, penalty, forfeiture, or punishment as aforesaid;
and any such investigation, legal proceedings or remedy may be instituted,
continued, or enforced and any such penalty, forfeiture or punishment may
be imposed as if those directions, instructions, or guidelines had not been
repealed.
B. Application of other laws not barred
50. The provisions of these Directions shall be in addition to, and not in derogation
of the provisions of any other laws, rules, regulations, or directions, for the time being
in force
C. Interpretations
51. For the purpose of giving effect to the provisions of these Directions or in order
to remove any difficulties in the application or interpretation of the provisions of these
Directions, the RBI may, if it considers necessary, issue necessary clarifications in
27

respect of any matter covered herein and the interpretation of any provision of these
Directions given by the RBI shall be final and binding.
(Manoranjan Padhy)
Chief General Manager
28

Annex I
FORM 'B'
[To be submitted by a Scheduled co-operative bank]
Statement of Position at the close of business on last day of the fortnight @
the
(Rupees rounded off to the nearest Thousand)
Name of the Bank :
I. Liabilities to the Banking System in India*
(a) Demand and time deposits from banks*
(i) Demand
(ii) Time
(b) Borrowings from banks *
(c) Other demand and time liabilities @@
Total of I
II. Liabilities to Others in India
(a) Aggregate deposits (other than from banks* and also other than any
deposit of money representing the reserve fund or any part thereof
maintained by any co- operative society within the State Co-operative
bank's area of operation)
(i) Demand
(ii) Time
(b) Borrowings (other than from Reserve Bank of India, the National Bank,
Exim Bank, the State Government, the National Co- operative
Development Corporation, the National Housing Bank, the Small
Industries Bank, the National Bank for Financing Infrastructure and
Development or other development financial institution, State Co-
operative Bank of the State concerned or the District Central Co-
operative Bank of the District concerned)
(c) Other demand and time liabilities
29

Total of II
Total of I + II
III. Assets with the Banking System in India*
(a) Balance with banks*
(i) in current account
(ii) in other accounts
(b) Money at call and short notice
(c) Advances to banks* i.e. due from banks*
(d) Other assets
Total of III
IV. Cash in India (i.e. cash in hand)
V. Investments in India (at book value)
(a) Central and State Government securities including treasury bills,
treasury deposit receipts, treasury savings deposit certificates and
postal obligations
(b) Other approved securities
Total of V
VI. Bank Credit in India (excluding inter-bank advances)
(a) Loans, cash credits and overdrafts
(b) Inland bills purchased and discounted
(i) Bills purchased
(ii) Bills discounted
(c) Foreign bills purchased and discounted
(i) Bills purchased
30

(ii) Bills discounted
Total of VI
Total of III + IV + V + VI
A. Net Liabilities for the purpose of Section 42 of (I - III) + II, if (I - III) is a plus
Reserve Bank of India Act, 1934 = Net Liability to the figure or II only, if
Banking System + Liability to Others in India (I - IIII) is a minus figure
B. Amount of minimum deposit required to be kept with = `
the Reserve Bank of India under the Act (rounded off
to the nearest rupee)
C. Savings Bank Account (vide Regulation 7)
Demand liabilities in India
Time liabilities in India
Sd/-
Signature of Officers
1. (Designation)
2. (Designation)
Station :
Date :
1. Borrowings in India from the Reserve Bank of India under the Reserve Bank of India Act,
1934
Section :
(i) 17(2)(a)
(ii) 17(2)(b) or (4)(c)
(iii) 17(2)(bb) or (4)(c)
(iv) 17(4)(c)
(v) 17(4)(a)
Total of item (1)
31

2. Borrowings from
(i) National Bank under the National Bank for Agriculture and Rural Development Act, 1981
under Section :
(a) 21
(b) 22
(c) 23
(d) 24
(e) 25
(ii) State Bank of India
(iii) Other banks
(iv) State Government
(v) National Co-operative Development Corporation
(vi) Export-Import Bank of India
(vii) National Housing Bank
(viii) Small Industries Bank
(ix) National Bank for Financing Infrastructure and Development
(x) Other development financial institution
(xi) State Co-operative Bank of the State concerned
(xii) District Central Co-operative Bank of the District concerned
Total of item (2)
3. Balance with the Reserve Bank of India
Footnotes
# Scheduled primary (urban) co-operative banks are also required to submit the statement in
the same format.
@ Where last day of the fortnight is a public holiday under the Negotiable Instruments Act, 1881
(26 of 1881) for one or more offices of a scheduled State Co-operative bank, the Return shall
give the preceding working day's figures in respect of such office or offices, but shall
nevertheless be deemed to relate to last day of that fortnight.
* The expression "Banking System" or "Banks" wherever it appears in the return means the
banks and any other financial institutions referred to in regulations (i) to (v) of clause (e) of the
Explanation below Section 42(1) of the Reserve Bank of India Act, 1934.
@@ If it is not possible to provide the figure against I (c) separately from II(c), the same may be
included in the figure against II (c). In such a case, the net liability to the banking system will
be worked out as the excess, if any, of the aggregate of I(a) and I(b) over the aggregate of III
32

Annex II
FORM I
Cash Reserve Ratio (CRR) & Statutory Liquidity Ratio (SLR)
The Banking Regulation Act, 1949 Form - I
(See Rule 5)
[Sections 18(1) and 24(3)] [Vide paragraph …..]
CRR for Non-Scheduled Co-operative Banks
SLR – All Co-operative Banks (Scheduled and Non-
Scheduled)
Name of the Co-operative Bank :
Name(s) and Designation(s) of
the Officer(s) submitted the Return :
Statement of Demand and Time liabilities in India and Amount maintained
in India in Cash, Gold and unencumbered Securities for the Month of
The amounts of various items in this return should be worked out after taking into
account, where necessary, the adjustments indicated in the footnotes at the end of the
return.
(Rounded off to the nearest Thousand Rupees)
As at the close of Business
on
15th day of Last day of the
the month month
1 2 3
Part – A
I. Liabilities in India(£) to the banking system$
(a) Demand liabilities
(i) Total of credit balances in current accounts
maintained with the Co-operative Bank by the State
Bank of India, corresponding new banks and IDBI
Bank limited
33

(ii) Total of other demand liabilities to the banking
system
(b) Time liabilities to the banking system$
Total of I
II. Liabilities in India to others X
(a) Demand liabilities
(b) Time liabilities
Total of II
III. Assets in India with the banking system
(a) Total of credit balances (%) in current accounts
maintained with State Bank of India, corresponding new
banks and IDBI Bank limited.
(b) Total of other assets with the banking system, viz.,
(i) balances in all accounts other than those included in
item III (a), (ii) money at call and short notice, (iii)
advances, and (iv) any other assets.
IV. Total (net) demand and time liabilities for the purposes of
Sections 18 and 24 of the Act = (I-III) + II, if (I-III) is a plus
figure, OR II only, if (I-III) is a minus figure
V. Cash in hand (&)
VI. Balances in current accounts with
(a) Reserve Bank of India++
(b) State Co-operative Bank of the State concerned (+)
(c) District Central Co-operative Bank of the district
concerned (%)
Total of VI
VII Balances with all other types with
(a) State Co-operative Bank of the State
(b) District Central Co-operative Bank
34

Total of VII
VIII Net balance in current accounts, i.e., excess of III(a) over
I(a)(i)
Part - B Information
need not be
Compliance with Section 18 furnished
35

(Not applicable to scheduled State Co-operative Banks)
IX. Such per cent of IV, as on the last day of the second }
preceding fortnight, as notified by the Reserve Bank. }
}
}
}
}
X. Cash reserve actually maintained = V + VI + VIII }
Part - C : Compliance with Section 24 : }
(Not applicable to scheduled State Co-operative Banks) }
XI. Such per cent of IV, as on }
the last day of the second preceding fortnight, as notified by }
the Reserve Bank. }
XII. Assets actually maintained }
(a) Cash and other balances maintained in India }
X-IX + VII }
}
(b) Gold ££
(c) Unencumbered approved securities $$ }
}
Total of XII
Part -D : Compliance with Section 24 :
(Applicable to Scheduled / State Co-operative Banks)
XIII Such per cent of IV, as on
the last day of the second preceding fortnight, as notified by
the Reserve Bank.
XIV Assets actually maintained
(a) Cash in hand
(b) Balance maintained with the Reserve Bank of India in
excess of the balance required to be maintained under
Section 42 of the Reserve Bank of India Act, 1934 [i.e.,
VI(a)]
(c) Net balance in current accounts (i.e., VIII)
(d) Gold ££
(e) Unencumbered approved securities $$
(f) Amount deposited with the Reserve Bank, under
Standing Deposit Facility Scheme
36

(g) Balances of all other types with :
(i) State Co-op. Bank of the State concerned (+)
(ii) District Central Co-op. Bank of the district concerned
(X)
Total of XIV
Sd/-
Signature
Date:
Footnotes
1. Return in this Form is to be submitted to the Reserve Bank of India under Section 24 of
the Banking Regulation Act, 1949 (As application to co-operative societies) by
scheduled State Co-operative Banks and Sections 18 and 24 of the Act ibid. by the
other "Co-operative Banks" not later than 15 days after the end of the months to which
it relates.
2. If last day of the fortnight is a holiday under the Negotiable Instruments Act, 1881 (26
of 1881), the figures as at the close of business on the preceding working day should
be furnished.
£. For the purposes of this return, "Liabilities in India" shall not include.
(i) The paid-up capital or the reserves or any credit balance in the profit and loss
account of the Cooperative Bank –
(ii) In the case of a State Co-operative Bank or a District Central Co-operative Bank,
any deposit of money with it, representing the reserve fund or any part thereof
maintained with it, by any other Cooperative Society within its area of operation;
(iii) in the case of a District Central Co-operative Bank, any advance taken from the
State co-operative bank of the State concerned;
(iv) Any advance taken by a primary Co-operative Bank from the State Cooperative
Bank of the State concerned or the District Central Co-operative Bank of the district
concerned;
(v) Amount of, any advance or other credit arrangement drawn and availed of by a Co-
operative Bank against approved securities;
37

(vi) In the case of any Co-operative Bank which has granted an advance against any
balance maintained with it, such balance to the extent of the amount outstanding in
respect of such advance.
$. For the purpose of this return, the expression "Banking system" shall comprise the
following banks and financial institutions, viz.
(i) State Bank of India
(ii) Corresponding new banks or IDBI Bank Ltd.
(iii) Regional Rural Banks
(iv) Banking companies;
(v) Other financial institutions, if any, notified by the Central Government in this behalf
under clause (d) of the Explanation to sub-section (1) of Section 18 of the Banking
Regulation Act, 1949 (As applicable to co-operative societies).
X. For the purpose of this return, "liabilities in India to others" shall not include borrowings
from a State Government, the Reserve Bank, Export-Import Bank of India, the National
Housing Bank, the Small Industries Bank, National Bank for Agriculture and Rural
Development, or the National Co-operative Development Corporation established
under Section 3 of the National Co- operative Development Act, 1962
% (i) Any balance held by Co-operative Bank with another bank shall not, to the
extent such balance represents the investment of Agricultural Credit Stabilisation Fund
of such Co-operative Bank, be deemed to be cash maintained in India.
(ii) In case the co-operative bank has taken an advance against any balance
maintained with the State Co-operative bank of the State concerned or with the
District Central Co-operative Bank of the district concerned, such balance to the
extent to which it has been drawn against or availed of shall not be deemed to
be such cash maintained in India.
& (i) For the purpose of this return, any cash with a Co-operative Bank shall not, to
the extent such cash represents the balance in Agricultural Credit Stabilisation
Fund of such Co-operative Bank, be deemed to be cash maintained in India.
(ii) Cash must not include balance with other banks or any item other than bank /
currency notes, rupee coin (including one rupee notes) and subsidiary coins
current on the date of this return.
38

++ Scheduled State Co-operative Banks should show here only the amount in excess of
the balance required to be maintained with the Reserve Bank of India under Section 42
of the Reserve Bank of India Act, 1934.
+ Applicable to State industrial Co-operative Banks, District Central Co-operative Bank,
District Industrial Co-operative Banks and Primary Co-operative Banks only.
X Applicable to primary Co-operative Banks only.
$$ (i) Valued on the basis of the method of valuation determined by the Reserve
Bank.
(ii) Approved securities, or a portion thereof, representing investment of monies of
Agricultural Credit Stabilisation Fund of a Co-operative Bank, shall not be
deemed to be unencumbered approved securities.
££ Valued at a price not exceeding the current market price.
39

APPENDIX - I TO Form I
Cash Reserve Ratio (CRR) & Statutory Liquidity Ratio (SLR)
Monthly statement showing the daily position of maintenance of Cash Reserve under
Section 18 of the Banking Regulation Act, 1949
(As applicable to Co-operative Societies) during the Month of
(Applicable to Non-Scheduled Co-operative Banks)
Name of the Bank :
(Rupees rounded off to the nearest Thousand)
Amount of Cash Reserve
Date Required to be Actually Deficit Surplus Remarks
maintained maintained
1 2 3 4 5 6 7
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
40

19
20
21
22
23
24
25
26
27
28
29
30
31
Signature of CEO :
Name :
Designation :
NB : Where there is a public holiday under Negotiable Instruments Act, 1881 (26 of 1881), figures in
respect of such day should relate to the preceding working day.
41

APPENDIX - II TO Form I
Cash Reserve Ratio (CRR) & Statutory Liquidity Ratio (SLR)
Monthly statement showing the daily position of maintenance
of liquid assets under Section 24 of the Banking Regulation Act, 1949 (As
applicable to Co-operative Societies) during the month of
[Applicable to all Co-operative Banks (Scheduled and Non- Scheduled)]
[Vide paragraph …]
Name of the Bank :
(Rupees rounded off to the nearest Thousand)
Amount of Liquid Assets
Date Required to be Actually Deficit Surplus Remarks
maintained maintained
1 2 3 4 5 6 7
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
42

16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
26
27
28
29
30
31
Signature of CEO :
Name :
Designation :
NB : Where there is a public holiday under Negotiable Instruments Act, 1881 (26 of 1881), figures in respect of such
day should relate to the preceding working day.
43

APPENDIX III to Form I
Cash Reserve Ratio (CRR) & Statutory Liquidity Ratio (SLR)
Statement of Valuation of SLR Securities
(Fortnight ended ______) [Vide paragraph…]
Name of the Bank :
(Rs. in Lakhs up to two Decimals)
Net Value for
Depreciation
Particulars Face Value Book Value SLR Purpose (2-
Held
3)
Part I
1. 2. 3. 4.
Government Securities
Opening Balance
Addition during the fortnight (+)
Deduction during the fortnight (-)
Closing Balance (a)
Part II
Other Approved Securities
Opening Balance
Addition during the fortnight (+)
Deduction during the fortnight (-)
Closing balance (b)
Total (a+b)
44

Annex III
Register showing the daily position of cash reserve and liquid assets maintained
under Sections 18 and 24 respectively of the Banking Regulation Act, 1949
Cash Reserve Ratio (CRR) & Statutory Liquidity Ratio (SLR)
(As applicable to Co-operative Societies) (For Rural Co-operative Banks)
[Vide paragraph …]
(Rounded off to the nearest Thousand)
Month and Year
1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27 28 29 30 31
Part - A
I. Liabilities in India
£$ to the banking
system
(a) Demand
liabilities
(i) Total of
credit
balances in
current
accounts
maintained
with the Co-
operative
Bank by the
State Bank
of India ,
correspondin
g new banks
and IDBI
Bank limited
(ii) Total of other
demand
liabilities to
the banking
system
(b) Time liabilities to
the banking
system
Total of I
3
II. Liabilities in India
£, X to others
45

(a) Demand liabilities
(b) Time liabilities
Total of II
III. Assets in India with
the banking system
(a) Total of credit
balances % in
current accounts
maintained with
State Bank of
India ,
corresponding
new banks and
IDBI Bank
limited.
(b) Total of other
assets with the
banking system,
viz., (i) balances
in all accounts
other than those
included in item
III (a),
(ii) money at call
and short notice,
(iii) advances,
and (iv) any other
assets.
IV. Total (net) demand
and time liabilities for
the purposes of
Sections 18 and 24
of the Act = (I-III) + II,
if (I-III) is a plus
figure, OR II only, if
(I-III) is a minus figure
V. Cash in hand
VI. Balances in current
accounts with
(a) Reserve Bank of
India ++
(b) State Co-
operative Bank of
the State
concerned *+%
42

(c) District Central
Co-operative
Bank of the
district concerned
*%
Total of VI
VII. Balances of all other
types with
(a) State Co-
operative Bank of
the State
concerned *+%
(b) District Central
Co-operative
Bank of the
district concerned
*+%
Total of VII
VIII. Net balance in
current accounts, i.e.,
excess of III(a) over
I(a)(i)
Part-B
Compliance with Section 18
(Not applicable to
Scheduled State Co-
operative Banks)
IX. Such per cent of IV as
on the last day of the
second preceding
fortnight, as notified by
the Reserve Bank
X. Cash reserve actually
maintained = V + VI +
VIII
Part-C
Compliance with Section
24:
(Not applicable to
scheduled State Co-
operative Banks)
42

XI. Such per cent of IV
as on the last day of
the second preceding
fortnight, as notified
by the Reserve Bank
XII. Assets
actually
maintained
(a) Cash and other
balances
maintained in
India X-IX + VII
(b) Gold ££
(c) Unencumbered
approved
securities $$
Total of XII
Part-D
Compliance with Section
24:
(Applicable to Scheduled /
State Co-operative Banks)
XIII Such per cent of IV
as on the last day of
the second preceding
fortnight, as notified
by the Reserve Bank
XIV Assets
actually
maintained
(a) Cash in hand
(b) Balance
maintained with
the Reserve Bank
of India in excess
of the balance
required to be
maintained under
section 42 of the
Reserve Bank of
India Act,
1934[i.e., VI(a)]
43

(c) Net balance in
current accounts
(i.e., VIII)
(d) Gold ££
(e) Unencumbered
approved
securities $$
(f) Amount deposited
with the Reserve
Bank, under
Standing Deposit
Facility Scheme
Total of XIV
44