भारतीय �रज़वर् बैंक
RESERVE BANK OF INDIA
RBI/DOR/2025-26/326
DOR.CRE.REC.245/07-03-007/2025-26 November 28, 2025
Reserve Bank of India (All India Financial Institutions - Concentration Risk
Management) Directions, 2025
Table of Contents
Chapter I - Preliminary ................................................................................................................ 3
Chapter II - Large Exposures Framework .................................................................................. 6
Chapter III – Other Permitted exposures and Prudential Limits ............................................ 25
Chapter IV - Repeal and other provisions ............................................................................... 29
Annex I ....................................................................................................................................... 30

In exercise of the powers conferred by Section 45L of the Reserve Bank of India
Act, 1934, and all other provisions / laws enabling the Reserve Bank of India (‘RBI’) in this
regard, RBI being satisfied that it is necessary and expedient in the public interest so to do,
hereby, issues the Directions hereinafter specified.
Chapter I - Preliminary
A. Short Title and Commencement
1. These Directions shall be called the Reserve Bank of India (All India Financial Institutions
- Concentration Risk Management) Directions, 2025.
2. These Directions shall come into effect immediately upon issuance.
B. Applicability
3. These Directions shall be applicable to All India Financial Institutions (hereinafter
collectively referred to as ‘AIFIs’ and individually as an ‘AIFI’) viz. Export Import Bank of
India (‘EXIM Bank’), National Bank for Agriculture and Rural Development (‘NABARD’),
Small Industries Development Bank of India (‘SIDBI’), National Housing Bank (‘NHB’) and
National Bank for Financing Infrastructure and Development (‘NaBFID’).
C. Definitions
4. In these Directions, unless the context states otherwise, the terms herein shall bear the
meaning as assigned to them in the ensuing paragraphs.
(1)“Central counterparty” or “CCP” means a system provider, who by way of novation
interposes between system participants in the transactions admitted for settlement,
thereby becoming the buyer to every seller and the seller to every buyer, for the purpose
of effecting settlement of their transactions.
(2)“Clearing member” means a member of, or a direct participant in, a CCP that is entitled
to enter into a transaction with the CCP, regardless of whether it enters into trades with
a CCP for its own hedging, investment or speculative purposes or whether it also enters
into trades as a financial intermediary between the CCP and other market participants.
Explanation: For the purpose of these Directions, where a CCP has a link to a second CCP,
that second CCP is to be treated as a clearing member of the first CCP. Whether the second
CCP’s collateral contribution to the first CCP is treated as initial margin or a default fund
contribution will depend upon the legal arrangement between the CCPs. In such cases, if
3

any, the Reserve Bank should be consulted for determining the treatment of this initial
margin and default fund contributions.
(3) “Control” shall have the same meaning as assigned to it under clause (27) of Section
2 of the Companies Act, 2013 as amended from time to time.
(4) “Derivative” shall have the same meaning as assigned to it in Section 45U(a) of the
Reserve Bank of India Act, 1934.
(5) “Eligible capital base” for the purposes of these Directions is the effective amount of
Tier 1 capital fulfilling the criteria defined under Reserve Bank of India (All India Financial
Institutions – Prudential Norms on Capital Adequacy) Directions, 2025, as per the last
audited balance sheet. The infusion of capital after the published balance sheet date
may also be taken into account for the purpose of exposure norms. Further, profits
accrued during the year will be reckoned as Tier I capital for the purpose after making
necessary adjustments as prescribed under Reserve Bank of India (All India Financial
Institutions – Prudential Norms on Capital Adequacy) Directions, 2025.
Provided that the AIFI shall obtain an external auditor’s certificate on completion of the
infusion of capital and submit the same to the RBI (DOS) before reckoning the additions to
eligible capital base.
(6)“Infrastructure projects / infrastructure lending” means any credit facility in whatever
form extended by an AIFI to any infrastructure facility that is a project in any of the sectors
incorporated in the latest updated Harmonized Master List of Infrastructure Sub-sectors
published by the Government of India.
(7)“Large Exposure” means the sum of all exposure value of an AIFI measured in terms
of paragraphs 25 to 43 of these Directions, to a counterparty and / or a group of
connected counterparties, if it is equal to or above 10 per cent of the AIFI’s eligible capital
base.
(8)“Net worth” shall have the same meaning as assigned to it under clause (57) of Section
2 of Companies Act, 2013 as amended from time to time.
(9)“Qualifying central counterparty” or “QCCP” means an entity that is licensed to
operate as a CCP (including a license granted by way of confirming an exemption) and
is permitted by the appropriate regulator / overseer to operate as such with respect to
4

the products offered. This is subject to the provision that the CCP is based and
prudentially supervised in a jurisdiction where the relevant regulator / overseer has
established, and publicly indicated that it applies to the CCP on an ongoing basis,
domestic rules and regulations that are consistent with the CPSS-IOSCO Principles for
Financial Market Infrastructures.
(10)“Subsidiary” shall have the same meaning as assigned under the extant Accounting
Standards.
(11)“Trade exposures” include the current and potential future exposure of a clearing
member or a client to a CCP arising from OTC derivatives, exchange traded derivatives
transactions or SFTs, and initial margin. For the purpose of this definition, the current
exposure of a clearing member includes the variation margin due to the clearing member
but not yet received.
5. All other expressions, unless defined herein, shall have the same meaning as have been
assigned to them under the Banking Regulation Act, 1949 or the Reserve Bank of India
Act, 1934 or the Companies Act, 2013, or any statutory modification or re-enactment
thereto or other regulations issued by the Reserve Bank of India or the Glossary of Terms
published by Reserve Bank or as used in commercial parlance, as the case may be.
5

Chapter II - Large Exposures Framework
A. Role of the Board
6. An AIFI shall formulate comprehensive Board-approved policies on the Large
Exposures Framework that, inter alia, include provisions:
(1) to determine credit exposure limits of its refinancing portfolio;
(2) conditions under which exposure beyond 20 per cent of its eligible capital base to a
single counterparty shall be permitted;
(3) determining connectedness among counterparties; and
(4) adopting internal ceiling, within the regulatory prescribed ceiling, for aggregate
investment in equity of non-financial / commercial enterprises.
7. Additionally, an AIFI shall place an annual review of the implementation of exposure
management measures before the Board by the end of June (September in the case of
NHB).
B. Scope
8. An AIFI shall apply the large exposure norms on an ongoing basis and in the same
manner as applied for the risk-based capital requirements, i.e. (a) consolidated / Group
level (after consolidating the assets and liabilities of its subsidiaries / joint ventures /
associates, including overseas operations through AIFI’s branches, except those engaged
in insurance and any non-financial activities), and (b) solo level. These norms deal with
only the counterparty exposures but not with the sector / industry exposures.
C. Exemptions
9. An AIFI’s exposure to all its counterparties shall be subject to the exposure limits as
prescribed in Section D of this Chapter, except for those listed below:
(1) The refinance portfolios of the AIFI.
Provided that the AIFI shall frame a policy approved by its Board to determine credit
exposure limits in respect of its refinancing portfolio. The policy framed and
assessments made under such a policy shall be subject to supervisory scrutiny.
(2) Exposures to the Government of India and State Governments which are eligible for
zero per cent risk weight under Reserve Bank of India (All India Financial Institutions
– Prudential Norms on Capital Adequacy) Directions, 2025.
(3) Exposures to the RBI.
6

(4) Exposures where principal and interest are fully guaranteed by the Government of
India.
(5) Exposures secured by financial instruments issued by the Government of India, to
the extent that the eligibility criteria for recognition of the credit risk mitigation (CRM)
are met in terms of paragraph 26.
(6) Intra-day exposures to banks.
(7) An AIFI’s clearing activities related exposures to QCCPs as detailed in Section H of
this Chapter.
10. Where two (or more) entities falling outside the scope of the sovereign exemption are
controlled by or are economically dependent on an entity that falls within the scope of the
sovereign exemption [paragraphs 9 (2) and (3)], and are otherwise not connected, those
entities will not be deemed to constitute a group of connected counterparties.
D. Exposure Ceilings
D.1 Single Counterparty
11. The sum of all the exposure values of an AIFI to a single counterparty shall not be higher
than 20 per cent of the AIFI’s available eligible capital base at all times.
Provided that Board of the AIFI may allow additional five per cent exposure beyond 20 per
cent but at no time higher than 25 per cent of the AIFI’s eligible capital base, subject to the
following conditions:
(1) the AIFI shall put in place a specific Board-approved policy setting out
conditions under which exposure beyond 20 per cent may be considered; and
(2) the AIFI shall record in writing the exceptional reasons for which exposure
beyond 20 per cent is being allowed for each specific case.
Provided further that the AIFI may exceed the exposure limit by five per cent of its Tier-I
capital for exposure to a single counterparty, if the additional exposure is on account of
infrastructure ‘loan and / or investment’.
Provided further that single counterparty limit shall not exceed 25 per cent in any
case for the AIFI.
D.2 Group of Connected Counterparties
12. The sum of all exposure values of an AIFI to a group of connected counterparties shall
not be higher than 25 per cent of the AIFI’s available eligible capital base at all times.
7

Provided that an AIFI may exceed the exposure limit by 10 per cent of its Tier I capital for
exposure to a group of connected counterparties, if the additional exposure is on account
of infrastructure ‘loan and / or investment’.
E. Definition of connected counterparties
13. In some cases, an AIFI may have exposures to a group of counterparties with specific
relationships or dependencies such that, were one of the counterparties to fail, all of the
counterparties would very likely fail. Such a group of connected counterparties shall be
treated as a single counterparty. The sum of the AIFI’s exposure to all the individual entities
included within a group of connected counterparties shall be subject to the exposure limits,
as mentioned in Section D.2 above, and to the regulatory reporting requirements.
14. Two or more natural or legal persons shall be deemed to be a group of connected
counterparties if at least one of the following criteria is satisfied:
(1) Control relationship: one of the counterparties, directly or indirectly, has control
over the other(s) or the counterparties are, directly or indirectly, controlled by a third
party (an AIFI may or may not have exposure towards this third party). In case of
financial problems of the controlling entity, it is highly likely that the controlling entity
could make use of its ability to extract capital and / or liquidity from the controlled
entity, thereby weakening the financial position of the latter. Financial problems
could be transferred to the controlled entity, with the result that both the controlling
entity and the controlled entity would experience financial problems (domino effect).
From the prudential perspective, these types of clients (connected by control) form
a single risk.
(2) Economic interdependence: if one of the counterparties were to experience
financial problems, in particular funding or repayment difficulties, the other(s), as a
result, would also be likely to encounter funding or repayment difficulties.
Provided that in order to avoid cases where a thorough investigation of economic
interdependencies will not be proportionate to the size of the exposures, the AIFI
shall identify possible connected counterparties on the basis of economic
interdependence in all cases where the sum of all exposures to one individual
counterparty exceeds five per cent of the eligible capital base, and not in other
cases.
8

15. In order to establish the existence of a group of connected counterparties, the AIFI shall
assess the relationship amongst counterparties with reference to paragraphs 14 i(1) and
i(2) above.
Provided that if one entity owns more than 50 per cent of the voting rights of the other entity,
the AIFI shall automatically consider that the control relationship criterion [paragraph 14(1)]
is satisfied.
Provided further that the AIFI shall assess connectedness between counterparties based
on ‘control’ using the following evidences:
(i) Voting agreements (e.g., control of a majority of voting rights pursuant to an
agreement with other shareholders);
(ii) Significant influence on the appointment or dismissal of an entity’s
administrative, management or supervisory body, such as the right to appoint
or remove a majority of members in those bodies, or the fact that a majority
of members have been appointed solely as a result of the exercise of an
individual entity’s voting rights;
(iii) Significant influence on senior management, e.g., an entity has the power,
pursuant to a contract or otherwise, to exercise a controlling influence over
the management or policies of another entity (e.g., through consent rights
over key decisions, to decide on the strategy or direct the activities of an
entity, to decide on crucial transactions such as transfer of profit or loss); and
(iv) The AIFI shall also assess the above criteria with respect to a common third
party (such as holding company), irrespective of whether the AIFI has
exposure to that entity or not.
16. The AIFI shall also refer to criteria specified in the extant accounting standards for
further qualitative guidance when determining control.
17. While determining control relationship, an AIFI shall also examine cases where clients
have common owners, shareholders or managers; for example, horizontal groups where
an undertaking is related to one or more other undertakings because they all have the same
shareholder structure without a single controlling shareholder or because they are
managed on a unified basis. This management may be pursuant to a contract concluded
between the undertakings, or to provisions in the memoranda or articles of association of
those undertakings, or if the administrative management or supervisory bodies of the
9

undertaking and of one or more other undertakings consist, for the major part, of the same
persons.
18. Where control has been established based on any of the above criteria, in exceptional
cases, an AIFI shall have an option to demonstrate to the RBI (e.g., existence of control
between counterparties due to specific circumstances and corporate governance
safeguards) that such control does not necessarily result in the entities concerned
constituting a group of connected counterparties. For example, in specific cases where a
special purpose entity (SPE) that is controlled by another client (e.g., an originator) is fully
ring-fenced and bankruptcy remote (i.e., arrangements exist to the effect that assets of SPE
are not available to lenders of parent undertaking in the event of insolvency of the parent
undertaking) – so that there is no possible channel of contagion. Hence no single risk exists
between the special purpose entity and the controlling parent entity.
19. In establishing connectedness based on economic interdependence, the AIFI shall
consider, at a minimum, the following criteria:
(1) Where 50 per cent or more of one counterparty's gross receipts or gross
expenditures (on an annual basis) is derived from transactions with the other
counterparty;
(2) Where one counterparty has fully or partly guaranteed the exposure of the other
counterparty, or is liable by other means, and the exposure is so significant that the
guarantor is likely to default if a claim occurs;
(3) Where a significant part of one counterparty’s production / output is sold to another
counterparty, which cannot easily be replaced by other customers;
(4) When the expected source of funds to repay the loans of both counterparties is the
same and neither counterparty has another independent source of income from
which the loan may be serviced and fully repaid;
(5) Where it is likely that the financial problems of one counterparty would cause
difficulties for the other counterparties in terms of full and timely repayment of
liabilities;
(6) Where the insolvency or default of one counterparty is likely to be associated with
the insolvency or default of the other(s); and
(7) When two or more counterparties rely on the same source for the majority of their
funding and, in the event of the common provider’s default, an alternative provider
cannot be found - in this case, the funding problems of one counterparty are likely
10

to spread to another due to a one-way or two-way dependence on the same main
funding source.
20. The illustrative examples of Economic Interdependence Criteria are as below:
(1) Requirement: Both A and B are customers of an AIFI and the exposure of the AIFI
to each of them is more than five per cent of its eligible capital base (i.e. Tier-1
capital).
(i) Where 50 per cent or more of one counterparty's gross receipts or gross
expenditures (on an annual basis) is derived from transactions with the other
counterparty;
Illustrative Example: Company A is a commercial space provider and
company B utilises a major portion of this space and accounts for more than
50 per cent of gross receipts for Counterparty A.
(ii) Where one counterparty has fully or partly guaranteed the exposure of the other
counterparty, or is liable by other means, and the exposure is so significant that
the guarantor is likely to default if a claim occurs;
Illustrative Example: Company A fully or partly guarantees the loans
undertaken by company B and the guarantee is so large that it could result
in default in payments for A if it is invoked. The AIFI may consider parameters
like networth, EBITDA, liquid assets, etc., to assess whether the guarantor
will be in a position to honour the claim on an on-going basis.
(iii) Where a significant part of one counterparty’s production / output is sold to
another counterparty, which cannot easily be replaced by other customers;
Illustrative Example: When a significant part of product / output / services
of Company A is sold to Company B and there are no alternate buyers who
can be approached if B fails to buy, in such a case goods may remain unsold
and could lead to default in loan repayment by A. An auto part supplier and
auto manufacturing firm could be part of the same economically dependent
group based on this criteria. For deciding if the criteria would be applicable
to the counterparties under consideration, the AIFI may use financial criteria
like unsold inventory leading to operating loss / default in repayment as well
as subjective criteria like ability of the seller to find alternate buyer / market,
R&D capability of the seller, etc.
11

(iv) When the expected source of funds to repay the loans of both counterparties is
the same and neither counterparty has another independent source of income
from which the loan may be serviced and fully repaid;
Illustrative Example: Two auto component manufacturers i.e. company A
and company B are suppliers to a commercial vehicle manufacturer i.e.
company C. Source of funds for repayment of loans taken by A and B is
dependent on sales to C. In this case, A and B are connected to each other
based on the criteria of economic interdependence. Important factors to
consider would be extent of dependence of A and B on C, ability of A and B
to find another buyer, etc.
(v) Where it is likely that the financial problems of one counterparty would cause
difficulties for the other counterparties in terms of full and timely repayment of
liabilities;
Illustrative Example: Company A supplies intermediate goods to Company
C. Company C processes these goods and then sells it to company B. In
such cases, difficulties at A could lead to difficulties for B. In such cases A
and B are economically dependent. The AIFI may consider factors like
financial strength of counterparty B to withstand the shock, its ability to find
alternate supplier in place of C, etc. to decide on applicability of the criteria.
(vi) Where the insolvency or default of one counterparty is likely to be associated
with the insolvency or default of the other(s);
Illustrative Example: Examples would include all such cases where
insolvency or default of one company may lead to the insolvency or default
of the other companies. The AIFI may use criteria such as intercorporate
liabilities, significant trade receivables, etc. to decide on applicability of the
criteria.
(vii) When two or more counterparties rely on the same source for the majority of
their funding and, in the event of the common provider's default, an alternative
provider cannot be found - in this case, the funding problems of one counterparty
are likely to spread to another due to a one-way or two-way dependence on the
same main funding source.
Illustrative Example: Company A and Company B rely on the same non-
AIFI source for their funding requirements and may not have access to
12

alternative sources of funds. In such cases, difficulties at common source
could lead to difficulties at both the companies and thus these companies
are interconnected based on economic interdependence. Important factors
to consider would be strength of A and B to decide alternate source of funds,
likelihood of failure of the non-AIFI source, etc.
(2) Economic interdependence with two different entities: If an entity (C) is
economically dependent on two (or more) other entities (A and B) then payment
difficulty of any one of the entities (A or B) may cause payment difficulties to
dependent entity (C). Thus, C needs to be added in two different groups (A and C;
B and C).
Since exposure to C is considered as single risk for two separate groups, it does not
amount to double counting of exposure of C.
21. However, it is possible that there shall be circumstances where some of these criteria
do not automatically imply an economic dependence that results in two or more
counterparties being connected. In such a scenario, the AIFI shall not be required to
combine these counterparties to form a group of connected counterparties.
Provided that the AIFI can demonstrate that a counterparty which is economically closely
related to another counterparty shall be able to overcome financial difficulties, or even the
second counterparty’s default, by finding alternative business partners or funding sources
within an appropriate time period.
22. Relation between interconnectedness through control and interconnectedness
through economic dependency: Group of counterparties based on control and economic
interdependence are to be assessed separately. However, there may be situations where
the two types of dependencies are interlinked and could therefore exist within one group of
connected counterparties in such a way that all relevant clients constitute a single risk. Risk
of contagion is present irrespective of type of connectedness (i.e., control or economic
13

interdependence) between counterparties. The chain of contagion leading to possible
default of all entities concerned is the relevant factor for the grouping and needs to be
assessed in each individual case.
23. The following examples provide illustrations for formulation of groups in case of one-
way dependency and two-way dependencies.
(1) One way Dependency: Consider A controls A1 and A2, and B controls B1, and B1
is economically dependent on A2 (one-way dependency only i.e. financial difficulties
at A2 could impact B1 but not vice versa). In this case, B1 should be part of two
separate groups of A and B.
(i) Three different groups of i) A, A1, A2, ii) B, B1, iii) A2, B1, may not be sufficient
as financial difficulties of A2 is likely to cause difficulties for B1 also which is
economically dependent on A2 (which in turn is dependent on A).
(2) Two Way Dependency: Consider that A2 and B1 have two-way economic
dependency i.e. both are economically dependent on each other, which means that
financial difficulty at either entity could impact the other entity.
14

(i) Downstream Contagion: Downstream contagion should be assumed when an
entity is economically dependent on another entity and is itself the head of a ‘control
group’. If the other entity is part of a group of connected clients, the control group of
the economically dependent entity should then be included in the group of connected
counterparties to which the economic dependency relationship exists. To overcome
its own pending payment difficulties, the economically dependent entity is likely to
withdraw resources from controlled entities, thus extending the risk of contagion
downstream.
Consider A controls A1 and A2, and B controls B1, and B1 controls B2 and B3.
Further, consider B1 has one-way economic dependency on A2. If A2 faces financial
difficulty, it may impact B1 adversely, which then is likely to withdraw resources from
its controlled entities B2 and B3.
15

Grouping requirements:
(ii) Upstream Contagion: On the other hand, upstream contagion of entities that
control the economically dependent entity should be assumed only when the
controlling entity is also economically dependent on the entity that constitutes the
economic link between the two controlling groups.
For instance, in the above example of downstream contagion, if B1 is so important
to B that in a sense B is also dependent on B1, then contagion at A could also spread
to B, through A→A2→B1→B and all these entities would form a single group.
(iii) Limitations in formulating groups of connected counterparties: If an AIFI is not
having exposure to all the entities, it may be difficult to accurately form group of
connected counterparties. Such groups shall be formed on best efforts basis and
the AIFI should take reasonable steps to collect and use relevant information; this
includes publicly available information (e.g. annual financial statements), information
16

beyond institutions’ clients and also soft information that typically exists at the level
of individual loan officers and relationship managers. If there are interconnections
among entities that are not clients of the AIFI, it may be difficult for the AIFI to
formulate correct groupings. However, the AIFI should incorporate any information
that may be available to it publicly or through other clients or entities outside its
clientele.
For instance, in illustration shown below, if an AIFI has exposure to A and B5 only,
then it may be difficult to formulate correct groupings.
24. The AIFI shall frame a Board-approved policy for determining connectedness using the
criteria mentioned above. The policies are subject to supervisory scrutiny.
F. Values of Exposure
25. An exposure to a counterparty shall constitute both on and off-balance sheet exposures
which shall be calculated according to the method prescribed for capital computation under
Reserve Bank of India (All India Financial Institutions – Prudential Norms on Capital
Adequacy) Directions, 2025. The exposures shall be permitted to be offset with credit risk
mitigation techniques permitted in Reserve Bank of India (All India Financial Institutions –
Prudential Norms on Capital Adequacy) Directions, 2025, Off-balance sheet items shall be
converted into credit exposure equivalents through the use of credit conversion factors
(CCFs) by applying the CCFs set out the Reserve Bank of India (All India Financial
Institutions – Prudential Norms on Capital Adequacy) Directions, 2025, with a floor of 10
per cent.
17

F.1 Recognition of exposures to CRM providers
26. Where an AIFI reduces its exposure to the original counterparty on account of an eligible
CRM instrument provided by another counterparty (CRM provider) with respect to that
exposure, it shall also recognise an exposure to the CRM provider. The amount assigned
to the CRM provider will be the amount by which the exposure to the original counterparty
is reduced (except in the cases defined in paragraph 27 below).
27. When the credit protection takes the form of a credit default swap (CDS) and either the
CDS provider or the referenced entity is not a financial entity, the amount to be assigned to
the credit protection provider is not the amount by which the exposure to the original
counterparty is reduced but will be equal to the counterparty credit risk exposure value
calculated as per the extant method prescribed for the counterparty credit risk in Reserve
Bank of India (All India Financial Institutions – Prudential Norms on Capital Adequacy)
Directions, 2025.
Explanation: For the purpose of this paragraph, financial entities comprise:
(i) Regulated financial institutions, defined as a parent and its subsidiaries where any
substantial legal entity in the consolidated group is supervised by a regulator that
imposes prudential requirements consistent with international norms. These
include, but are not limited to, prudentially regulated insurance companies, broker
/ dealers, banks; and
(ii) Unregulated financial institutions, defined as legal entities whose main business
includes: the management of financial assets, lending, factoring, leasing, provision
of credit enhancements, securitisation, investments, financial custody, central
counterparty services, proprietary trading and other financial services activities
identified by supervisors.
F.2 Exposures to banks
28. The exposures to banks (excluding refinance exposure), except intra-day exposures,
shall be subject to the large exposure limit of 25 per cent of an AIFI’s Tier 1 capital.
F.3 Collective Investment Undertakings (CIUs), securitisation vehicles and other
structures - adoption of “Look Through Approach” (LTA)
29. There are cases when a structure lies between an AIFI and its exposures, that is, the
AIFI invests in structures which themselves have exposures to assets underlying the
structures (hereafter referred to as the “underlying assets”). Such structures include funds
18

(such as mutual funds, alternative investment funds), securitisations and other structures
(such as investment in security receipts, real estate investment trusts, infrastructure
investment trusts) with underlying assets. The AIFI shall assign such exposure amount to
specific counterparties of the underlying assets following the LTA described below.
(1) Look-Through Approach - a flow chart
(2) Look-Through Approach - An Illustrative example
(i) AIFI’s eligible capital base: 1000
(ii) Corpus of structure: 500
(iii) AIFI’s investment in structure: 100 (which is 10 per cent of eligible capital
base i.e. more than 0.25 per cent of eligible capital base)
(iv) Exposure values as per look-through approach:
19

Investment of AIFI’s exposure AIFI’s other Total exposure to
structure in that to underlying direct / indirect underlying
underlying through structure exposure to
underlying
Amount as per Amount as per Amount as per Amount as per
cent of cent of cent of cent of
corpus eligible eligible eligible
capital capital capital
base base base
Underlying 1 125 25.00% 25 2.50% 200 20.00% 225 22.50%
Underlying 2 10 20.00% 20 2.00% 150 15.00% 170 17.00%
Underlying 3 90 18.00% 18 1.80% 100 10.00% 118 11.80%
Underlying 4 75 15.00% 15 1.50% 80 8.00% 95 9.50%
Underlying 5 50 10.00% 10 1.00% 70 7.00% 80 8.00%
Underlying 6 30 6.00% 6 0.60% 50 5.00% 56 5.60%
Underlying 7 20 4.00% 4 0.40% 100 10.00% 104 10.40%
Underlying 8 10 2.00% 2 0.20% 150 15.00% 152 15.20%
Note:
(a) Exposure to underlying 8 (which is less than 0.25 per cent of eligible capital base)
may be counted as exposure on structure itself. Consequently, for underlying 8
total exposure to underlying will be 15.00 per cent or 15.20 per cent at the option
of the AIFI.
(b) Had the AIFI been not able to identify underlying exposures, entire exposure to
the structure (i.e. 100, which is greater than 0.25 per cent of eligible capital base)
would be exposure on ‘unknown client’. All such unknown clients would be
treated as a single counterparty and single counterparty limit would apply on
aggregate exposure to all such unknown clients.
30. The AIFI shall be permitted to assign the exposure amount to the structure itself, defined
as a distinct counterparty:
Provided that it can demonstrate that the AIFI’s exposure amount to each underlying asset
of the structure is smaller than 0.25 per cent of its eligible capital base, considering only
those exposure to underlying assets that result from the investment in the structure itself
and using the exposure value calculated according to paragraphs 35 and 36. In this case,
an AIFI is not required to look through the structure to identify the underlying assets.
31. The AIFI shall look through the structure and in the case of underlying assets for which
the underlying exposure value is equal to or above 0.25 per cent of its eligible capital base,
the counterparty corresponding to each of the underlying assets shall be identified so that
these underlying exposures can be added to any other direct or indirect exposure to the
20

same counterparty. The AIFI’s exposure amount to the underlying assets that are below
0.25 per cent of the AIFI’s eligible capital base shall be assigned to the structure itself (i.e.,
partial look-through is permitted).
32. If the AIFI is unable to identify the underlying assets of a structure:
(1) where the total amount of an AIFI’s exposures to a structure does not exceed 0.25
per cent of its eligible capital base, it shall assign the total exposure amount to the
structure itself, as a distinct counterparty.
(2) Otherwise (i.e., if the exposure to the structure equals or exceeds 0.25 per cent of
its eligible capital base), it shall assign this total exposure amount to the ‘unknown
client’.
Provided that the exposure limits shall apply on the aggregate of all such exposures
to ‘unknown clients’ as if they are a single counterparty.
33. Where the LTA is not required (paragraph 30 above), the AIFI shall demonstrate that
regulatory arbitrage considerations have not influenced the decision whether to look
through or not – e.g. that the AIFI has not circumvented the exposure limits by investing in
several individually immaterial transactions with identical underlying assets.
34. If LTA need not be applied, an AIFI’s exposure to the structure shall be the nominal
amount it invests in the structure.
35. Any structure where all investors rank pari passu (e.g., CIU): When the LTA is
required according to the sections above, the exposure value assigned to a counterparty is
equal to the pro rata share that the AIFI holds in the structure multiplied by the value of the
underlying asset in the structure. Thus, an AIFI holding a ₹1 investment in a structure,
which invests in 20 assets each with a value of ₹5, shall assign an exposure of ₹0.05 to
each of the counterparties. An exposure to such counterparty shall be added to any other
direct or indirect exposures the AIFI has to that counterparty.
36. Any structure with different seniority levels among investors (e.g., securitisation
vehicles): When the LTA (in terms of sections above) is required for an investment in a
structure with different levels of seniority, the exposure value to a counterparty shall be
measured for each tranche within the structure, assuming a pro rata distribution of losses
amongst investors in a single tranche. To compute the exposure value to the underlying
asset, an AIFI shall:
21

(1) first, consider the lower of the value of the tranche in which the AIFI has invested and
the nominal value of each underlying asset included in the underlying portfolio of assets
(2) second, apply the pro rata share of the AIFI’s investment in the tranche to the value
determined in the first step above.
37. Identification of additional risks:
(1) While taking exposures to structures, an AIFI shall identify such third parties which
may constitute an additional risk factor, and which are inherent in the structure itself
rather than in the underlying assets. Such a third party could be a risk factor for more
than one structure that the AIFI invests in. Examples of roles played by third parties
include originator, fund manager, liquidity provider and credit protection provider.
The RBI as a part of its Pillar 2 supervisory review and evaluation process will look
into this aspect and if required specify a specific course of action which may either
include reduction in exposure or raising of additional capital.
(2) It is conceivable that an AIFI may consider multiple third parties to be potential
drivers of additional risk. In this case, the AIFI shall assign the exposure resulting
from the investment in the relevant structures to each of the third parties.
G. Exposures to NBFCs
38. An AIFI’s exposure to NBFCs (excluding refinance exposure) shall be subject to the
single and group of connected counterparty limits prescribed in paragraphs 11 and 12.
H. Exposures to Central Counterparties
39. An AIFI’s clearing exposure to QCCPs shall be exempt from the large exposures
framework. However, these exposures shall be subject to the regulatory reporting
requirements as prescribed in paragraph 48.
40. In the case of non-QCCPs, the AIFI shall measure its exposure as a sum of both the
clearing exposures described in paragraph 42 and the non-clearing exposures described
in paragraph 43, and the same shall be subject to the large exposure limit of 25 per cent of
the eligible capital base.
41. The concept of connected counterparties described in paragraphs 13 to 24 does not
apply in the context of exposures to CCPs that are specifically related to clearing activities.
22

H.1 Calculation of exposures related to clearing activities
42. An AIFI shall identify exposures to a CCP related to clearing activities and sum together
these exposures. The AIFI shall determine the counterparty to which exposures shall be
assigned by applying the provisions of the risk-based capital requirements. Exposures
related to clearing activities are listed in the table below together with the exposure value
to be used:
Trade exposures The exposure value of trade exposures shall be
calculated using the exposure measures prescribed in
other parts of these Directions for the respective type of
exposures.
Segregated initial margin The exposure value is 0.
Explanation: When the initial margin (IM) posted is
bankruptcy-remote from the CCP – in the sense that it is
segregated from the CCP’s own accounts, e.g., when the
IM is held by a third-party custodian – this amount cannot
be lost by the AIFI if the CCP defaults; therefore, the IM
posted by the AIFI can be exempted from the large
exposure limit.
Non-segregated initial margin The exposure value is the nominal amount of initial
margin posted.
Pre-funded default fund Nominal amount of the funded contribution.
contributions
Unfunded default fund The exposure value is 0.
contributions
H.2 Other exposures
43. Other types of exposures that are not directly related to clearing services provided by
the CCP, such as equity stake (If equity stakes in a CCP are deducted from the capital on
which the large exposure limit is based, these shall not be included as exposure to the
CCP), funding facilities, credit facilities, guarantees etc., shall be measured according to
the rules set out in this framework, as for any other type of counterparty. These exposures
will be added together and be subjected to the large exposure limit of 25 per cent of the
eligible capital base.
23

I. Reporting System and Disclosures
44. The AIFI shall undertake an annual review of the implementation of exposure
management measures and place the same before its Board by the end of June
(September in the case of NHB). A copy of the review report shall be forwarded to the
concerned office of Department of Supervision.
I.1 Breach
45. Breach of exposure limits, if any, shall be under exceptional conditions beyond the
control of an AIFI, and needs to be rectified immediately. The breaches shall be reported
to RBI (Department of Supervision, Central Office) immediately.
46. The AIFI, if under breach of exposure limits, cannot undertake any further exposure (at
the entity or group level, as the case may be) until it is brought down within the limit.
47. Failure to comply with the exposure limit may lead to imposition of penalties on the AIFI
by the supervisor.
I.2 Regulatory reporting
48. The AIFI shall report its Large Exposures to the RBI (DOS, CO) as per the reporting
template given in Annex I on a monthly basis. The reporting shall cover the following:
(1) All exposures, meeting the definition of large exposure.
(2) All other exposures, measured without offsetting exposure value with credit risk
mitigation instruments, meeting the definition of large exposure.
(3) All the exempted exposures meeting the definition of large exposure.
(4) 20 largest exposures included in the scope of application, irrespective of the values
of these exposures relative to the AIFI’s eligible capital base.
24

Chapter III – Other Permitted exposures and Prudential Limits
A. Permitted exposures and limits
49. In addition to limiting exposures to a single borrower or a group of borrowers, an AIFI
shall consider fixing internal limits for aggregate commitments to specific sectors e.g.,
textiles, chemicals, engineering, etc., to ensure diversified sectoral exposure. These
sectoral limits shall be fixed based on the AIFI’s assessment of perceived risks and
performance of different sectors. The AIFI shall review and revise these limits periodically,
as deemed appropriate.
B. Cross Holding of Capital among Banks / Financial Institutions
50. An AIFI shall be guided by the Reserve Bank of India (All India Financial Institutions –
Prudential Norms on Capital Adequacy) Directions, 2025.
C. Exposure to capital markets
C.1 Components of Capital Market Exposure (CME)
51. An AIFI’s aggregate capital market exposure shall include both its direct and indirect
exposures and shall constitute of the following:
(1) direct investment in equity shares, convertible bonds, convertible debentures and
units of equity-oriented mutual funds the corpus of which is not exclusively invested
in corporate debt;
(2) advances against shares / bonds / debentures or other securities or on clean basis
to individuals for investment in shares (including IPOs / ESOPs), convertible bonds,
convertible debentures, and units of equity-oriented mutual funds;
(3) advances for any other purposes where shares or convertible bonds or convertible
debentures or units of equity oriented mutual funds are taken as primary security;
(4) advances for any other purposes to the extent secured by the collateral security of
shares or convertible bonds or convertible debentures or units of equity oriented
mutual funds i.e. where the primary security other than shares / convertible bonds /
convertible debentures / units of equity oriented mutual funds does not fully cover
the advances;
(5) secured and unsecured advances to stockbrokers and guarantees issued on behalf
of stockbrokers and market makers;
25

(6) loans sanctioned to corporates against the security of shares / bonds / debentures
or other securities or on clean basis for meeting promoter’s contribution to the equity
of new companies in anticipation of raising resources;
(7) bridge loans to companies against expected equity flows / issues; and
(8) all exposures to Alternative Investment Funds.
C.2 Limit on aggregate exposure to capital markets and investments in non-financial
/ commercial enterprises
C.2.1 Limit on aggregate exposure to capital markets
52. The aggregate exposure of an AIFI to the capital markets in all forms (both fund based
and non-fund based, direct and indirect), on solo as well as consolidated basis shall not
exceed 40 per cent of its net worth, as on March 31 of the previous year.
Provided that the AIFI’s direct exposure within this overall ceiling shall not exceed 20 per
cent of its net worth.
C.2.2 Limits on significant equity investments in non-financial / commercial
enterprises
53. An AIFI’s equity investment in a single company that is made in conformity with its
statutory mandate shall not exceed 49 per cent of the equity of the investee company.
Provided that in all other cases, the AIFI shall not hold more than 10 per cent of the equity
of the investee company as direct investment.
54. An AIFI shall be permitted to hold up to 49 per cent of equity of a company as a pledgee.
Provided that if the AIFI ends up acquiring this in satisfaction of its claims, it shall be brought
down below 10 per cent limit within 3 years.
C.2.3 Limits on aggregate exposure to capital markets
55. An AIFI’s aggregate investment in equity of non-financial / commercial enterprises,
other than that covered under paragraph 53, shall not exceed 10 per cent of the AIFI’s net
worth as on March 31 of the previous year.
Provided that the Board of the AIFI shall have the freedom to adopt a lower ceiling for the
AIFI, keeping in view its overall risk profile and corporate strategy.
26

C.3 Exemptions
56. The following items shall be exempted from the capital market exposure limits:
(1) An AIFI’s investments in own subsidiaries, joint ventures, State Finance
Corporations (SFCs) and investments in shares and convertible debentures,
convertible bonds issued by institutions forming crucial financial infrastructure such
as Acuité Ratings & Research Limited (Acuité), India SME Technology Services Ltd
(ISTSL), India SME Asset Reconstruction Company Ltd (ISARC), North Eastern
Development Finance Corporation Ltd (NeDFi), National Securities Depository Ltd.
(NSDL), Central Depository Services (India) Ltd. (CDSL), National Stock Exchange
(NSE), NSE Clearing Ltd., Clearing Corporation of India Ltd., (CCIL), a credit
information company which has obtained Certificate of Registration from the RBI
and of which the AIFI is a member, Multi Commodity Exchange of India Ltd. (MCX),
National Commodity and Derivatives Exchange Ltd. (NCDEX), Indian Commodity
Exchange Ltd., National Commodities Management Services Ltd. (NCML), National
Payments Corporation of India (NPCI) and other Public Finance Institutions (PFIs)
as defined under Section 2 (72) of Companies Act, 2013. After listing, the exposures
in excess of the original investment (i.e., prior to listing) would form part of the Capital
Market Exposure.
(2) Tier I and Tier II debt instruments issued by banks / other AIFIs;
(3) Investment in Certificate of Deposits (CDs) of banks / other AIFIs;
(4) Preference Shares;
(5) Non-convertible debentures and non-convertible bonds;
(6) Units of Mutual Funds under schemes where the corpus is invested exclusively in
debt instruments;
(7) Shares acquired by the AIFI as a result of conversion of debt / overdue interest into
equity as per the exemption provided under the Reserve Bank of India (All India
Financial Institutions – Resolution of Stressed Assets) Directions, 2025, applicable
to the AIFI, as amended from time to time;
(8) Promoters’ shares in the SPV of an infrastructure project pledged to the lending AIFI
for infrastructure project lending; and
(9) Exposure to brokers under the currency derivatives segment.
27

C.4 Computation of exposure
57. For computing the exposure to the capital markets, loans / advances sanctioned shall
be reckoned with reference to sanctioned limits or outstanding, whichever is higher.
Provided that in the case of fully drawn term loans, where there is no scope for re-drawal
of any portion of the sanctioned limit, an AIFI shall reckon the outstanding as the exposure.
58. The AIFI’s direct investment in shares, convertible bonds, convertible debentures and
units of equity-oriented mutual funds shall be calculated at their cost price.
28

Chapter IV - Repeal and other provisions
A. Repeal and saving
59. With the issue of these Directions, the existing Directions, instructions, and guidelines
relating to Concentration Risk Management as applicable to All India Financial Institutions
stand repealed, as communicated vide circular DOR.RRC.REC.302/33-01-010/2025-26
dated November 28, 2025. The Directions, instructions and guidelines already repealed
shall continue to remain repealed.
60. Notwithstanding such repeal, any action taken or purported to have been taken, or
initiated under the repealed Directions, instructions, or guidelines shall continue to be
governed by the provisions thereof. All approvals or acknowledgments granted under these
repealed lists shall be deemed as governed by these Directions. Further, the repeal of
these directions, instructions, or guidelines shall not in any way prejudicially affect:
(1) any right, obligation or liability acquired, accrued, or incurred thereunder;
(2) any, penalty, forfeiture, or punishment incurred in respect of any contravention
committed thereunder;
(3) any investigation, legal proceeding, or remedy in respect of any such right, privilege,
obligation, liability, penalty, forfeiture, or punishment as aforesaid; and any such
investigation, legal proceedings or remedy may be instituted, continued, or enforced
and any such penalty, forfeiture or punishment may be imposed as if those
directions, instructions, or guidelines had not been repealed.
B. Application of other laws not barred
61. The provisions of these Directions shall be in addition to, and not in derogation of the
provisions of any other laws, rules, regulations or directions, for the time being in force.
C. Interpretations
62. For the purpose of giving effect to the provisions of these Directions or in order to
remove any difficulties in the application or interpretation of the provisions of these
Directions, the RBI may, if it considers necessary, issue necessary clarifications in respect
of any matter covered herein and the interpretation of any provision of these Directions
given by the RBI shall be final and binding.
(Vaibhav Chaturvedi)
Chief General Manager
29

Annex I
Return on Large Exposures
Name of the AIFI
Return for the Month
Eligible Capital base (Tier I) (₹. crore)
A. AIFI’s 20 Largest Exposures to counterparties (single as well as group of
connected counterparties) irrespective of their values relative to AIFI’s eligible
capital base
Whether Single (S) or Exposure as
Sl Name of the Exposure
Group (G) of connected per cent of
No. Counterparty Amount
Counterparties Tier I Capital
1.
2.
3.
--
--
18.
19.
20.
B. AIFI’s exposures with values equal to or above 10 per cent of Tier I Capital
Whether Single (S) or Exposure as
Sl Name of the Exposure
Group (G) of connected per cent of
No. Counterparty Amount
Counterparties Tier I Capital
1.
2.
--
n
C. AIFI’s 20 other exposures (measured without effect of CRM) with values equal
to or above 10 per cent of Tier I capital (not including exposures reported in B
already).
Whether Single (S) or Exposure as
Sl Name of the Exposure
Group (G) of connected per cent of
No. Counterparty Amount
Counterparties Tier I Capital
1.
2.
--
n.
30

D. AIFI’s exempted exposures with values equal to or above 10 per cent of Tier I
Capital
Whether Single (S) or Exposure as
Sl Name of the Exposure
Group (G) of connected per cent of
No. Counterparty Amount
Counterparties Tier I Capital
1.
2.
--
n.
31