भारतीय �रज़वर् बैंक
RESERVE BANK OF INDIA
RBI/DOR/2025-26/227
DOR.CAP.REC.146/21-01-002/2025-26 November 28, 2025
Reserve Bank of India (Local Area Banks - Prudential Norms on Capital
Adequacy) Directions, 2025
Table of Contents
Chapter I Preliminary .......................................................................................................... 3
A Short title and commencement ............................................................................... 3
B Applicability ............................................................................................................ 3
C Definitions ................................................................................................................ 3
Chapter II Regulatory capital .............................................................................................. 6
A Minimum regulatory capital .................................................................................... 6
B Definition of capital funds ....................................................................................... 6
C Tier 1 capital ............................................................................................................. 6
D Tier 2 capital .......................................................................................................... 14
E Deductions from computation of capital funds ................................................... 27
F Limit for Tier 2 elements ....................................................................................... 28
G Norms on cross holdings ...................................................................................... 28
H Capital for subsidiaries ....................................................................................... 30
Chapter III Calculation of risk weighted assets (RWAs) ................................................. 31
A Capital charge for credit risk .............................................................................. 31
B Capital charge for market risk ............................................................................. 44
C Capital charge for interest rate derivatives.......................................................... 49
D Calculation of total risk weighted assets (RWAs) and capital ratio ................... 55
Chapter IV Repeal and Other provisions ........................................................................ 66
A Repeal and Saving ................................................................................................. 68
B Application of other laws not barred .................................................................... 68

C Interpretations ....................................................................................................... 68
Annex I Reporting format for details of investments by FIIs and NRIs in Perpetual Non-
Cumulative Preference Shares qualifying as Tier 1 Capital ........................................... 70
2

In exercise of the powers conferred by section 35A of the Banking
Regulation Act (BR Act), 1949 the Reserve Bank of India being satisfied that it is
necessary and expedient in the public interest and in the interest of banking policy so
to do, hereby, issues the Directions hereinafter specified.
Chapter I
Preliminary
A Short title and commencement
1. These Directions shall be called the Reserve Bank of India (Local Area Banks -
Prudential Norms on Capital Adequacy) Directions, 2025.
2. These Directions shall come into effect immediately upon issuance.
B Applicability
3. These Directions shall be applicable to Local Area Banks (hereinafter collectively
referred to as 'banks' or ‘LABs’ and individually as a 'bank' or ‘LAB’).
C Definitions
4. In these directions, unless the context otherwise requires, the terms herein shall
bear the meanings assigned to them below.:
(1) ‘Banking book’ shall mean all items which are not included under trading book
as per these Directions;
(2) ‘Basis Risk’ is the risk that the interest rate of different assets, liabilities and off-
balance sheet items may change in different magnitude;
(3) ‘Credit Risk’ is defined as the potential that a bank's borrower or counterparty
may fail to meet its obligations in accordance with agreed terms. It is also the
possibility of losses associated with a diminution in the credit quality of borrowers
or counterparties;
(4) ‘Deferred Tax Assets (DTA)’ and ‘Deferred Tax Liabilities (DTL)’ shall have the
same meaning as assigned to them under the extant Accounting Standards.;
(5) ‘Derivative’ shall have the same meaning as assigned to it in section 45U(a) of
the RBI Act, 1934;
3

(6) ‘Duration’ (Macaulay Duration) measures the price volatility of fixed income
securities. It is often used in the comparison of the interest rate risk between
securities with different coupons and different maturities. It is the weighted
average of the present value of all the cash flows associated with a fixed income
security. It is expressed in years. The duration of a fixed income security is
always shorter than its term to maturity, except in the case of zero-coupon
securities where they are the same;
(7) ‘Hedging’ is taking action to eliminate or reduce exposure to risk;
(8) ‘Horizontal disallowance’ is a disallowance of offsets to required capital used for
assessing market risk for regulatory capital. In order to calculate the capital
required for interest rate risk of a trading portfolio, offsetting of long and short
positions is permitted. However, interest rate risks of instruments at different
horizontal points of the yield curve are not perfectly correlated. Hence, this
method requires that a portion of these offsets be disallowed;
(9) ‘Interest Rate Risk’ is the risk that the financial value of assets or liabilities (or
inflows / outflows) will be altered because of fluctuations in interest rates;
(10) ‘Long Position’ refers to a position where gains arise from a rise in the value of
the underlying;
(11) ‘Market Risk’ is the risk of losses in on-and off-balance sheet positions arising
from movements in market prices;
(12) ‘Modified Duration’ or volatility of an interest-bearing security is its Macaulay
Duration divided by one plus the coupon rate of the security. It represents a
percentage change in the securities' price for a 100 basis points change in yield.
It is generally accurate for only small changes in the yield.
MD = - dP / dY x 1 / P
Where, MD = Modified Duration
P = Gross price (i.e., clean price plus accrued interest)
dP = Corresponding small change in price
dY = Small change in yield compounded with the frequency of the coupon
payment;
4

(13) ‘Mortgage-backed Security’ is a bond-type security in which the collateral is
provided by a pool of mortgages. Income from the underlying mortgages is used
to meet interest and principal repayments;
(14) ‘Open Position’ is the net difference between the amounts payable and amounts
receivable in a particular instrument or commodity. It results from the existence
of a net long or net short position in the particular instrument or commodity;
(15) ‘Short Position’ refers to a position where gains arise from a decline in the value
of the underlying. It also refers to the sale of a security in which the seller does
not have a long position;
(16) ‘Trading Book’ shall include all instruments that are classified as ‘Held for
Trading’ as per Reserve Bank of India (Local Area Banks – Classification,
Valuation and Operation of Investment Portfolio) Directions, 2025;
(17) ‘Vertical Disallowance’ means a reversal of the offsets of a general market risk
charge of a long position by a short position in two or more securities in the same
time band in the yield curve under the method followed for determining regulatory
capital necessary to cushion market risk.
5. All other expressions, unless defined herein, shall have the same meaning as
have been assigned to them under the applicable Acts, rules / regulations made
thereunder, or any statutory modification or re-enactment thereto or as used in
commercial parlance, as the case may be.
5

Chapter II
Regulatory capital
A Minimum regulatory capital
6. An LAB shall maintain a minimum Capital to Risk-weighted Assets Ratio (CRAR)
of 9 per cent on an ongoing basis. It shall compute CRAR in the following
manner:
Eligible capital funds
CRAR =
Risk-Weighted Assets (RWAs)
B Definition of capital funds
7. The capital funds for capital adequacy purpose shall consist of Tier 1 and Tier 2
Capital.
C Tier 1 Capital
8. Tier 1 Capital shall consist of:
(i) Paid-up capital (ordinary shares), statutory reserves, AFS reserve, and other
disclosed free reserves, if any;
Note-
(1) AFS – Reserve shall be as per the Reserve Bank of India (Local Area
Banks – Classification, Valuation and Operation of Investment Portfolio)
Directions, 2025; and
(2) Any negative balance in the AFS - Reserve shall be deducted from Tier
1 capital;
(ii) Perpetual Non-Cumulative Preference Shares (PNCPS), subject to
compliance with the minimum regulatory requirements specified in
paragraph 9;
(iii) Perpetual Debt Instruments (PDI) subject to compliance with the minimum
regulatory requirements specified in paragraph 10;
(iv) Capital reserves representing surplus arising out of sale proceeds of
assets; and
6

(v) An LAB may include quarterly / half yearly profits for computation of Tier 1
Capital only if the quarterly / half yearly results are audited by statutory
auditors and not when the results are subjected to limited review.
C.1 Criteria for inclusion of Perpetual Non-Cumulative Preference Shares
(PNCPS) in Tier 1 Capital
9. The PNCPS issued by an LAB shall meet the following terms and conditions to
qualify for inclusion in Tier 1 Capital for capital adequacy purposes:
(1) Limits
The outstanding amount of Tier 1 PNCPS along with Tier 1 PDIs shall not exceed
40 per cent of total Tier 1 Capital at any point of time. The above limit shall be
based on the amount of Tier 1 Capital after deduction of goodwill and other
intangible assets but before the deduction of investments. Tier 1 PNCPS issued
in excess of the overall ceiling of 40 per cent shall be eligible for inclusion under
upper Tier 2 Capital, subject to limits prescribed for Tier 2 Capital. However,
investors' rights and obligations shall remain unchanged.
(2) Amount
The amount of PNCPS to be raised shall be decided by the Board of Directors of
an LAB.
(3) Maturity
The PNCPS shall be perpetual.
(4) Options
(i) PNCPS shall not be issued with a 'put option' or ‘step up option'.
(ii) An LAB may, however, issue the instruments with a ‘call option’ at a
particular date subject to following conditions:
(a) The call option on the instrument is permissible after the instrument
has run for at least ten years; and
(b) Call option shall be exercised only with the prior approval of the
Reserve Bank (Department of Regulation). While considering the
proposals received from an LAB for exercising the call option, the
Reserve Bank shall, among other things, take into consideration the
7

LAB's CRAR position, both at the time of exercise of the call option
and after exercise of the call option.
(5) Dividend
The rate of dividend payable to the investors shall be either a fixed rate or a
floating rate referenced to a market determined rupee interest benchmark rate.
(6) Payment of Dividend
(i) An issuing LAB shall pay dividend subject to availability of distributable
surplus out of current year's earnings, and if,
(a) The LAB’s CRAR is above the minimum regulatory requirement
prescribed by the Reserve Bank;
(b) The impact of such payment does not result in LAB’s CRAR falling
below or remaining below the minimum regulatory requirement
prescribed by the Reserve Bank;
(c) In the case of half yearly payment of dividends, the balance sheet as
at the end of the previous year does not show any accumulated
losses; and
(d) In the case of annual payment of dividends, the current year's balance
sheet does not show any accumulated losses.
(ii) The dividend shall not be cumulative. Dividend missed in a year shall not
be paid in future years, even if adequate profit is available and the level of
CRAR conforms to the regulatory minimum. When dividend is paid at a rate
lesser than the prescribed rate, the unpaid amount shall not be paid in
future years, even if adequate profit is available and the level of CRAR
conforms to the regulatory minimum.
(iii) All instances of non-payment of dividend / payment of dividend at a lesser
rate than prescribed in consequence of conditions as at (i) above shall be
reported by the issuing LAB to the Chief General Managers-in-Charge of
the Department of Regulation and the Department of Supervision (DoS) of
the Reserve Bank.
(7) Seniority of Claim
8

The claims of the investors in PNCPS shall be senior to the claims of investors in
equity shares and subordinated to the claims of all other creditors and the
depositors.
(8) Other Conditions
(i) PNCPS shall be fully paid-up, unsecured, and free of any restrictive clauses.
(ii) Investment by Foreign Institutional Investors (FIIs) and Non-Resident Indians
(NRIs) shall be within an overall limit of 49 per cent and 24 per cent of the
issue respectively, subject to the investment by each FII not exceeding 10
per cent of the issue and investment by each NRI not exceeding 5 per cent
of the issue. Investment by FIIs in these instruments shall be outside the
External Commercial Borrowings (ECB) limit for rupee denominated
corporate debt as fixed by Government of India from time to time.
(iii) An LAB shall comply with the terms and conditions, if any, stipulated by the
Securities and Exchange Board of India (SEBI) / other regulatory authorities
in regard to issue of the instruments.
(9) Compliance with Reserve Requirements
(i) The funds collected by various branches of the LAB or other banks for the
issue and held pending finalisation of allotment of the Tier 1 preference
shares shall be taken into account for the purpose of calculating reserve
requirements.
(ii) The total amount raised by the LAB by issue of PNCPS shall, however, not
be reckoned as liability for calculation of net demand and time liabilities for
the purpose of reserve requirements and, as such, shall not attract CRR /
SLR requirements.
(10) Reporting Requirements
(i) An LAB issuing PNCPS shall submit a report to the Chief General Manager-
in-Charge, Department of Regulation of the Reserve Bank, giving details of
the capital raised, including the terms of issue together with a copy of the
offer document soon after the issue is completed.
(ii) The issue-wise details of amount raised as PNCPS qualifying for Tier 1
Capital by the LAB from FIIs / NRIs shall be reported within 30 days of the
9

issue to the Chief General Manager-in-Charge, Foreign Exchange
Department of the Reserve Bank in the proforma given at Annex I. The
details of the secondary market sales / purchases by FIIs and the NRIs in
these instruments on the floor of the stock exchange shall be reported by
the custodians and designated banks, respectively to the Reserve Bank as
per the applicable Foreign Exchange Management Act (FEMA) guidelines.
(11) Investment in PNCPS issued by other banks / Financial Institutions (FIs)
(i) An LAB’s investment in PNCPS issued by other banks and FIs shall be
reckoned along with the investment in other instruments eligible for capital
status while computing compliance with the overall ceiling of 10 per cent of
the investing LAB’s total regulatory capital prescribed in paragraph 19 of
this chapter.
(ii) LAB’s investments in PNCPS issued by other banks / FIs shall attract risk
weight for capital adequacy purposes as prescribed in paragraph 19(4) of
this chapter.
(iii) An LAB’s investments in the PNCPS of other banks shall be treated as
exposure to capital market and be reckoned for the purpose of compliance
with the prudential ceiling for capital market exposure as fixed by the
Reserve Bank.
(12) Grant of Advances against Tier 1 Preference Shares
An LAB shall not grant advances against the security of the PNCPS issued by
them.
(13) Classification in the Balance Sheet
These instruments shall be classified as capital and shown under 'Schedule I -
Capital' of the Balance Sheet.
C.2 Criteria for inclusion of Perpetual Debt Instrument (PDI) in Tier 1 Capital
10. The PDI issued by an LAB shall meet the following terms and conditions to qualify
for inclusion in Tier 1 Capital for capital adequacy purposes:
Terms of issue of PDIs denominated in Indian rupees
(1) Amount
10

The amount of PDI to be raised shall be decided by the Board of Directors of the
LAB.
(2) Limits
The total amount raised by an LAB through PDI [including the existing Innovative
Perpetual Debt Instruments (IPDI)] shall not exceed 15 per cent of total Tier 1
Capital. The eligible amount shall be computed with reference to the amount of
Tier 1 Capital as on March 31 of the previous financial year, after deduction of
goodwill, DTA, and other intangible assets but before the deduction of
investments. PDI in excess of the above limits shall be eligible for inclusion under
Tier 2 Capital, subject to limits prescribed for Tier 2 Capital. However, investors’
rights and obligations shall remain unchanged.
(3) Maturity Period
The PDI shall be perpetual.
(4) Rate of Interest
The interest payable to the investors shall be either at a fixed rate or at a floating
rate referenced to a market determined rupee interest benchmark rate.
(5) Options
PDI shall not be issued with a ‘put option’ or a ‘step-up option’. However, an LAB
may issue the instruments with a ‘call option’ subject to strict compliance with
each of the following conditions:
(i) Call option on the instrument is permissible after the instrument has run for
at least ten years; and
(ii) Call option shall be exercised only with the prior approval of the Reserve
Bank (Department of Regulation). While considering the proposals received
from an LAB for exercising the call option, the Reserve Bank shall, among
other things, take into consideration the LAB’s CRAR position, both at the
time of exercise of the call option and after exercise of the call option.
(6) Lock-in Clause
(i) PDI shall be subjected to a lock-in clause in terms of which the issuing LAB
shall not be liable to pay interest, if
11

(a) the LAB’s CRAR is below the minimum regulatory requirement
prescribed by the Reserve Bank; or
(b) the impact of such payment results in the LAB’s CRAR falling below
or remaining below the minimum regulatory requirement prescribed
by the Reserve Bank;
(ii) However, an LAB can pay interest with the prior approval of the Reserve
Bank when the impact of such payment may result in net loss or increase
the net loss, provided the CRAR remains above the regulatory norm. For
this purpose, ‘net loss’ shall mean either (a) the accumulated loss at the
end of the previous financial year; or (b) the loss incurred during the current
financial year.
(iii) The interest shall not be cumulative.
(iv) All instances of invocation of the said lock-in clause shall be notified by the
issuing banks to the Chief General Managers-in-Charge, Department of
Regulation and Department of Supervision of the Reserve Bank.
(7) Seniority of claim
The claims of the investors in any outstanding IPDI and PDI shall be:
(i) Superior to the claims of investors in equity shares and Tier 1 preference
shares; and
(ii) Subordinated to the claims of all other creditors and depositors.
(8) Discount
The PDI shall not be subjected to a progressive discount for capital adequacy
purposes.
(9) Other conditions
(i) PDI shall be fully paid-up, unsecured, and free of any restrictive clauses.
(ii) Investment by FIIs in PDI raised in Indian rupees shall be outside the ECB
limit for rupee denominated corporate debt, as fixed by the Government of
India from time to time, for investment by FIIs in corporate debt instruments.
Investment in these instruments by FIIs and NRIs shall be within an overall
limit of 49 per cent and 24 per cent respectively, of the issue, subject to
12

the investment by each FII not exceeding 10 per cent of the issue and
investment by each NRI not exceeding 5 per cent of the issue.
(iii) An LAB shall comply with the terms and conditions, if any, stipulated
by SEBI / other regulatory authorities in regard to issue of the instruments.
(10) Terms of issue of PDI denominated in foreign currency
An LAB may augment its capital funds through the issue of PDI in foreign
currency without seeking the prior approval of the Reserve Bank, subject to
compliance with the under-mentioned requirements:
(i) PDI issued in foreign currency shall comply with all terms and conditions as
applicable to the instruments issued in Indian Rupees.
(ii) Not more than 49 per cent of the eligible amount can be issued in foreign
currency.
(iii) PDI issued in foreign currency shall be outside the limits for foreign currency
borrowings indicated below:
(a) The total amount of Upper Tier 2 Instruments issued in foreign
currency shall not exceed 25 per cent of the unimpaired Tier 1 Capital.
This eligible amount shall be computed with reference to the amount
of Tier 1 Capital as on March 31 of the previous financial year, after
deduction of goodwill and other intangible assets but before the
deduction of investments, as per paragraph 17(1) of this chapter.
(b) This shall be in addition to the existing limit for foreign currency
borrowings by Authorised Dealers, stipulated by the Reserve Bank
under Foreign Exchange Management Act, 1999.
(11) Compliance with Reserve Requirements
The total amount raised by an LAB through PDI shall not be reckoned as liability
for calculation of net demand and time liabilities for the purpose of reserve
requirements and, as such, shall not attract CRR / SLR requirements.
(12) Reporting requirements
An LAB issuing PDI shall submit a report to the Chief General Manager-in-
Charge, Department of Regulation of the Reserve Bank giving details of the debt
13

raised, including the terms of issue, together with a copy of the offer document,
soon after the issue is completed.
(13) Investment in PDI issued by other banks / FIs
(i) An LAB's investment in PDI issued by other banks and financial institutions
shall be reckoned along with the investment in other instruments eligible for
capital status while computing compliance with the overall ceiling of 10
percent prescribed in paragraph 19 of this chapter.
(ii) LAB's investments in PDI issued by other banks shall attract risk weight for
capital adequacy purposes, as prescribed in paragraph 19(4) of this
chapter.
(14) Grant of advances against PDI
An LAB shall not grant advances against the security of the PDI issued by them.
(15) Classification in the Balance Sheet
An LAB shall indicate the amount raised by issue of PDI in the Balance Sheet
under Schedule 4 - ‘Borrowings’.
D Tier 2 Capital
11. Tier 2 Capital shall consist of:
(i) Revaluation reserves
Revaluation reserves shall be subjected to a discount of 55 per cent while
determining their value for inclusion in Tier 2 Capital. Such reserves shall
be reflected on the face of the Balance Sheet as revaluation reserves.
(ii) General Provisions and Loss Reserves
General provisions and loss reserves shall be included in Tier 2 Capital
provided they are not attributable to the actual diminution in value or
identifiable potential loss in any specific asset and are available to meet
unexpected losses. Adequate care shall be taken to ensure that sufficient
provisions have been made to meet all known losses and foreseeable
potential losses before considering general provisions and loss reserves to
be part of Tier 2 Capital. General provisions and loss reserves shall be
admitted up to a maximum of 1.25 per cent of RWAs. General provisions /
14

loss reserves shall include:
(a) 'Floating Provisions' held by an LAB, which is general in nature and
not made against any identified assets.
(b) Excess provisions which arise on sale of Non-Performing Assets
(NPAs).
(c) General provisions on standard assets.
(d) Incremental provisions in respect of unhedged foreign currency
exposures as prescribed under Reserve Bank of India (Local Area
Banks – Credit Risk Management) Directions, 2025.
(iii) Hybrid Debt Capital Instruments
The following instruments shall be eligible for inclusion in upper Tier 2
Capital:
(a) Debt capital instruments subject to compliance with minimum
regulatory requirements specified in paragraph 13.
(b) Perpetual Cumulative Preference Shares (PCPS) / Redeemable Non-
Cumulative Preference Shares (RNCPS) / Redeemable Cumulative
Preference Shares (RCPS) subject to compliance with minimum
regulatory requirements specified in paragraph 14.
(iv) Subordinated Debt
Rupee denominated subordinated debt shall be eligible for inclusion in Tier
2 Capital, subject to the terms and conditions specified in paragraph 15.
Swap Transactions
12. An LAB shall not enter into swap transactions involving conversion of fixed rate
rupee liabilities in respect of Tier 1 / Tier 2 bonds into floating rate foreign
currency liabilities.
D.1 Criteria for inclusion of debt capital instruments in Upper Tier 2 Capital
13. The debt capital instruments that are issued as bonds / debentures by an LAB
shall meet the following terms and conditions to qualify for inclusion as Upper
Tier 2 Capital for capital adequacy purposes.
15

(1) Currency of issue
An LAB shall issue Upper Tier 2 instruments in Indian Rupees. An LAB may also
issue these instruments in foreign currency without seeking the prior approval of
the Reserve Bank, subject to compliance with the under-mentioned
requirements:
(i) The total amount of Upper Tier 2 instruments issued in foreign currency
shall not exceed 25 per cent of the unimpaired Tier 1 Capital. This eligible
amount shall be computed with reference to the amount of Tier 1 Capital as
on March 31 of the previous financial year, after deduction of goodwill and
other intangible assets but before the deduction of investments;
(ii) The amount raised shall be in addition to the existing limit for foreign
currency borrowings by Authorised Dealers stipulated by the Reserve Bank
under the Foreign Exchange Management Act (FEMA), 1999; and
(iii) Investment by FIIs in Upper Tier 2 Instruments raised in Indian rupees shall
be outside the limit for investment in corporate debt instruments.
Investments by FIIs in these instruments shall be subject to a separate
ceiling of USD 500 million.
(2) Amount
The amount of Upper Tier 2 Instruments to be raised shall be decided by the
Board of Directors of the LAB.
(3) Limit
Upper Tier 2 Instruments along with other components of Tier 2 Capital shall not
exceed 100 per cent of Tier 1 Capital. The above limit shall be based on the
amount of Tier 1 Capital after deduction of goodwill and other intangible assets
but before the deduction of investments.
(4) Maturity Period
The Upper Tier 2 instruments shall have a minimum maturity of 15 years.
(5) Rate of Interest
The interest payable to the investors shall be either at a fixed rate or at a floating
rate referenced to a market determined rupee interest benchmark rate.
16

(6) Options
Upper Tier 2 instruments shall not be issued with a ‘put option’ or a ‘step-up
option’. However, an LAB may issue the instruments with a ‘call option’ subject
to strict compliance with each of the following conditions:
(i) Call options on the instrument is permissible after the instrument has run
for at least ten years; and
(ii) Call options shall be exercised only with the prior approval of the Reserve
Bank (Department of Regulation). While considering the proposals received
from an LAB for exercising the call option, the Reserve Bank shall, among
other things, take into consideration the LAB’s CRAR position both at the
time of exercise of the call option and after exercise of the call option.
(7) Lock-in clause
(i) Upper Tier 2 instruments shall be subjected to a lock-in clause in terms of
which the issuing LAB shall not be liable to pay either interest or principal,
even at maturity, if
(a) the LAB’s CRAR is below the minimum regulatory requirement
prescribed by the Reserve Bank; or
(b) the impact of such payment results in LAB’s CRAR falling below or
remaining below the minimum regulatory requirement prescribed by
the Reserve Bank.
(ii) However, an LAB can pay interest with the prior approval of the Reserve
Bank when the impact of such payment may result in net loss or increase
the net loss provided CRAR remains above the regulatory norm. For this
purpose, 'Net Loss' shall mean either (a) the accumulated loss at the end
of the previous financial year; or (b) the loss incurred during the current
financial year.
(iii) The interest amounts due and remaining unpaid can be allowed to be paid
in the later years subject to the LAB complying with the above regulatory
requirement. While paying such unpaid interest and principal, an LAB is
17

allowed to pay compound interest at a rate not exceeding the coupon rate
of the relative Upper Tier 2 bonds, on the outstanding principal and interest.
(iv) All instances of invocation of the said lock-in clause shall be notified by the
issuing LAB to the Chief General Managers-in-Charge of Department of
Regulation and Department of Supervision of the Reserve Bank of India,
Mumbai.
(8) Seniority of claim
The claims of the investors in Upper Tier 2 instruments shall be:
(i) Superior to the claims of investors in instruments eligible for inclusion in
Tier 1 capital; and
(ii) Subordinate to the claims of all other creditors including those in Lower Tier
2 and the depositors. Amongst the investors of various instruments included
in Upper Tier 2, the claims shall rank pari-passu with each other.
(9) Discount
The Upper Tier 2 instruments shall be subjected to a progressive discount for
capital adequacy purposes as in the case of long-term subordinated debt over
the last five years of their tenor. As they approach maturity, these instruments
shall be subjected to progressive discount as indicated in the table below for
being eligible for inclusion in Tier 2 Capital.
Remaining Maturity of Instruments Rate of Discount (%)
Less than one year 100
One year and more but less than two years 80
Two years and more but less than three years 60
Three years and more but less than four years 40
Four years and more but less than five years 20
(10) Redemption
Upper Tier 2 instruments shall not be redeemable at the initiative of the holder.
All redemptions shall be made only with the prior approval of the Reserve Bank
(Department of Regulation).
18

(11) Other conditions
(i) Upper Tier 2 instruments shall be fully paid-up, unsecured, and free of any
restrictive clauses.
(ii) Investment in Upper Tier 2 instruments by FIIs shall be within the limits as
laid down in the ECB Policy for investment in debt instruments. In addition,
NRIs shall also be eligible to invest in these instruments as per existing
policy.
(iii) An LAB shall comply with the terms and conditions, if any, stipulated by
the SEBI / other regulatory authorities in regard to issue of the instruments.
(12) Compliance with reserve requirements
(i) The funds collected by various branches of the LAB or other banks for the
issue, and held pending finalisation of allotment, of the Upper Tier 2 capital
instruments shall be taken into account for the purpose of calculating
reserve requirements.
(ii) The total amount raised by an LAB through Upper Tier 2 instruments shall
be reckoned as liability for the calculation of net demand and time liabilities
for the purpose of reserve requirements and, as such, shall attract CRR /
SLR requirements.
(13) Reporting requirements
An LAB issuing Upper Tier 2 instruments shall submit a report to the Chief
General Manager-in-Charge, Department of Regulation of the Reserve Bank
giving details of the debt raised, including the terms of issue specified at
paragraphs above together with a copy of the offer document, soon after the
issue is completed.
(14) Investment in Upper Tier 2 instruments issued by other bank / FI
(i) An LAB’s investment in Upper Tier 2 instruments issued by other banks
and FIs shall be reckoned along with the investment in other instruments
eligible for capital status while computing compliance with the overall
ceiling of 10 per cent for cross holding of capital among banks / FIs
prescribed in paragraph 19 of this chapter.
19

(ii) LAB’s investments in Upper Tier 2 instruments issued by other bank / FI
shall attract risk weight for capital adequacy purposes as prescribed in
paragraph 19(4) of this chapter.
(15) Grant of advances against Upper Tier 2 instruments
An LAB shall not grant advances against the security of the Upper Tier 2
instruments issued by them.
(16) Classification in the Balance Sheet
An LAB shall indicate the amount raised by issue of Upper Tier 2 instruments by
way of explanatory notes / remarks in the Balance Sheet as well as under the
head ‘Hybrid debt capital instruments issued as bonds / debentures’ under
‘Schedule 4 - Borrowings’.
D.2 Criteria for inclusion of Perpetual Cumulative Preference Shares (PCPS) /
Redeemable Non-Cumulative Preference Shares (RNCPS) / Redeemable
Cumulative Preference Shares (RCPS) in Upper Tier 2 Capital
14. The PCPS / RNCPS / RCPS issued by an LAB shall meet the following terms
and conditions to qualify for inclusion in Upper Tier 2 Capital for capital adequacy
purposes:
(1) Characteristics of the instruments
(i) These instruments can be either perpetual (PCPS) or dated (RNCPS and
RCPS) instruments with a fixed maturity of minimum 15 years.
(ii) The perpetual instruments shall be cumulative. The dated instruments can
be cumulative or non-cumulative.
(2) Limits
The outstanding amount of these instruments along with other components of
Tier 2 Capital shall not exceed 100 per cent of Tier 1 Capital at any point of time.
The above limit shall be based on the amount of Tier 1 capital after deduction of
goodwill and other intangible assets but before the deduction of investments.
(3) Amount
The amount to be raised shall be decided by the Board of Directors of an LAB.
20

(4) Options
(i) These instruments shall not be issued with a 'put option' or ‘step-up option’.
(ii) However, an LAB may issue the instruments with a ‘call option’ at a
particular date subject to strict compliance with each of the following
conditions:
(a) The call option on the instrument is permissible after the instrument
has run for at least ten years; and
(b) Call option shall be exercised only with the prior approval of the
Reserve Bank (Department of Regulation). While considering the
proposals received from an LAB for exercising the call option, the
Reserve Bank shall, among other things, take into consideration the
LAB's CRAR position both at the time of exercise of the call option
and after exercise of the call option.
(5) Coupon
The coupon payable to the investors shall be either at a fixed rate or at a floating rate
referenced to a market determined rupee interest benchmark rate.
(6) Payment of coupon
(i) The coupon payable on these instruments shall be treated as interest and
accordingly debited to Profit and Loss Account. However, it shall be
payable only if,
(a) The LAB’s CRAR is above the minimum regulatory requirement
prescribed by the Reserve Bank;
(b) The impact of such payment does not result in LAB’s CRAR falling
below or remaining below the minimum regulatory requirement
prescribed by the Reserve Bank;
(c) The LAB does not have a net loss. For this purpose, ‘net loss’ is
defined as either (i) the accumulated loss at the end of the previous
financial year / half year as the case may be; or (ii) the loss incurred
during the current financial year;
21

(d) In the case of PCPS and RCPS, the unpaid / partly unpaid coupon
shall be treated as a liability. The interest amount due and remaining
unpaid can be allowed to be paid in later years subject to the LAB
complying with the above requirements; and
(e) In the case of RNCPS, deferred coupon shall not be paid in future
years, even if adequate profit is available and the level of CRAR
conforms to the regulatory minimum. The LAB can however pay a
coupon at a rate lesser than the prescribed rate, if adequate profit is
available and the level of CRAR conforms to the regulatory minimum.
(ii) All instances of non-payment of interest / payment of interest at a lesser
rate than prescribed rate shall be notified by the issuing LAB to the Chief
General Managers-in-Charge of Department of Regulation and
Department of Supervision of the Reserve Bank.
(7) Redemption / repayment of redeemable preference shares included in Upper
Tier 2
(i) These instruments shall not be redeemable at the initiative of the holder;
(ii) Redemption of these instruments at maturity shall be made only with the
prior approval of the Reserve Bank (Department of Regulation), subject
inter alia to the following conditions:
(a) the LAB's CRAR is above the minimum regulatory requirement
prescribed by the Reserve Bank.
(b) the impact of such payment does not result in LAB's CRAR falling
below or remaining below the minimum regulatory requirement
prescribed by the Reserve Bank.
(8) Seniority of claim
The claims of the investors in these instruments shall be senior to the claims of
investors in instruments eligible for inclusion in Tier 1 Capital and subordinate
to the claims of all other creditors including those in Lower Tier 2 and the
depositors. Amongst the investors of various instruments included in Upper Tier
2, the claims shall rank pari-passu with each other.
(9) Amortisation for the purpose of computing CRAR
22

The redeemable preference shares (both cumulative and non-cumulative) shall
be subjected to a progressive discount for capital adequacy purposes over the
last five years of their tenor, as they approach maturity, as indicated in the table
below for being eligible for inclusion in Tier 2 Capital.
Remaining maturity of instruments Rate of discount (%)
Less than one year 100
One year and more but less than two years 80
Two years and more but less than three years 60
Three years and more but less than four years 40
Four years and more but less than five years 20
(10) Other conditions
(i) These instruments shall be fully paid-up, unsecured, and free of any
restrictive clauses.
(ii) Investment by FIIs and NRIs shall be within an overall limit of 49 per cent
and 24 per cent of the issue respectively, subject to the investment by each
FII not exceeding 10 per cent of the issue and investment by each NRI not
exceeding 5 per cent of the issue. Investment by FIIs in these instruments
shall be outside the ECB limit for rupee denominated corporate debt as
fixed by Government of India from time to time. However, investment by
FIIs in these instruments shall be subject to separate ceiling.
(iii) An LAB shall comply with the terms and conditions, if any, stipulated by
SEBI / other regulatory authorities in regard to issue of the instruments.
(11) Compliance with reserve requirements
(i) The funds collected by various branches of the LAB or other banks for the
issue, and held pending finalization of allotment of these instruments, shall
have to be taken into account for the purpose of calculating reserve
requirements.
(ii) The total amount raised by an LAB through the issue of these instruments
shall be reckoned as liability for the calculation of net demand and time
liabilities for the purpose of reserve requirements and, as such, shall attract
CRR / SLR requirements.
23

(12) Reporting requirements
An LAB issuing these instruments shall submit a report to the Chief General
Manager-in-Charge, Department of Regulation of the Reserve Bank giving
details of the debt raised, including the terms of issue together with a copy of
the offer document soon after the issue is completed.
(13) Investment in these instruments issued by other banks / FIs
(i) An LAB’s investment in Upper Tier 2 instruments issued by other banks
and financial institutions shall be reckoned along with the investment in
other instruments eligible for capital status while computing compliance
with the overall ceiling of 10 per cent for cross holding of capital among
banks / FIs prescribed in paragraph 19 of this chapter.
(ii) An LAB’s investments in these instruments issued by other bank / FI shall
attract risk weight for capital adequacy purposes as prescribed in
paragraph 19(4) of this chapter.
(14) Grant of advances against these instruments
An LAB shall not grant advances against the security of these instruments
issued by them.
(15) Classification in the Balance Sheet
These instruments shall be classified as borrowings under ‘Schedule 4-
Borrowings’ of the Balance Sheet.
D.3 Criteria for Inclusion of Subordinated Debt in Lower Tier 2 Capital
15. To be eligible for inclusion in Lower Tier 2 Capital, terms of issue of the bonds
as subordinated debt instruments shall be in conformity with the following:
(1) Amount
The amount of subordinated debt to be raised shall be decided by the Board of
Directors of the LAB.
(2) Maturity period
(i) Subordinated debt instruments with an initial maturity period of less than 5
years, or with a remaining maturity of one year shall not be included as
24

part of Tier 2 Capital. These instruments shall be subjected to progressive
discount as they approach maturity at the rates shown below:
Remaining maturity of the instruments Rate of discount (%)
Less than One year 100
More than One year and less than Two years 80
More than Two years and less than Three years 60
More than three years and less than Four Years 40
More than Four years and less than Five years 20
(ii) The bonds shall have a minimum maturity of 5 years. However, if the bonds
are issued in the last quarter of the year (between 1st January to 31st
March), they shall have a minimum tenure of sixty-three months.
(3) Rate of interest
The coupon rate shall be decided by the Board of Directors of an LAB.
(4) Options
Subordinated debt instruments shall not be issued with a 'put option' or ‘step-up
option’. However, an LAB can issue the instruments with a ‘call option’ subject
to strict compliance with each of the following conditions:
(i) Call option shall be exercised after the instrument has run for at least five
years; and
(ii) Call option shall be exercised only with the prior approval of the Reserve
Bank (Department of Regulation). While considering the proposals
received from an LAB for exercising the call option, the Reserve Bank shall,
among other things, take into consideration the bank's CRAR position both
at the time of exercise of the call option and after exercise of the call option.
(5) Other conditions
(i) The instruments shall be fully paid-up, unsecured, subordinated to the
claims of other creditors, free of restrictive clauses and shall not be
redeemable at the initiative of the holder or without the consent of the
Reserve Bank.
25

(ii) Necessary permission from Foreign Exchange Department, Central Office,
of the Reserve Bank be obtained for issuing the instruments to NRIs / FIIs.
(iii) An LAB shall comply with the terms and conditions, if any, set by the SEBI
/ other regulatory authorities in regard to issue of the instruments.
(6) Inclusion in Tier 2 Capital
Subordinated debt instruments shall be limited to 50 per cent of Tier 1 Capital
of the LAB. These instruments, together with other components of Tier 2 Capital,
shall not exceed 100 per cent of Tier 1 capital.
(7) Grant of advances against bonds
An LAB shall not grant advances against the security of its own bonds.
(8) Compliance with Reserve Requirements
The total amount of subordinated debt raised by an LAB shall be reckoned as
liability for the calculation of net demand and time liabilities for the purpose of
reserve requirements and, as such, shall attract CRR / SLR requirements.
(9) Treatment of Investment in subordinated debt
Investments by an LAB in subordinated debt of other banks and FIs shall be
reckoned along with the investment in other instruments eligible for capital
status while computing compliance with the overall ceiling of 10 per cent
prescribed in paragraph 19 of this chapter. An LAB’s investments in
subordinated debt issued by other bank shall attract risk weight for capital
adequacy purposes, as prescribed in paragraph 19(4) of this chapter.
(10) Subordinated debt in foreign currency raised by Indian banks
An LAB shall approach the Reserve Bank on a case-to-case basis for issue of
subordinated debt in foreign currency.
(11) Subordinated debt to retail investors
An LAB issuing subordinated debt to retail investors shall adhere to the following
conditions:
26

(i) The requirement for specific sign-off as quoted below, from the investors
for having understood the features and risks of the instrument, shall be
incorporated in the common application form of the proposed debt issue.
"By making this application, I / We acknowledge that I / We have
understood the terms and conditions of the Issue of [insert the name
of the instruments being issued] of [Name of the LAB] as disclosed in
the Draft Shelf Prospectus, Shelf Prospectus and Tranche Document".
(ii) For floating rate instruments, an LAB shall not use its Fixed Deposit rate
as benchmark.
(iii) All the publicity material, application form and other communication with the
investor shall clearly state in bold letters (with Arial font, size 14) how a
subordinated bond is different from fixed deposit, particularly that it is not
covered by deposit insurance.
(12) Reporting requirements
An LAB shall submit a report to the Reserve Bank (Department of Regulation)
giving details of the capital raised, such as, amount raised, maturity of the
instrument, rate of interest together with a copy of the offer document, soon after
the issue is completed.
(13) Classification in the Balance Sheet
These instruments shall be classified under 'Schedule 4 – Borrowings’ of the
Balance sheet.
E Deductions from computation of capital funds
Deductions from Tier 1 Capital
16. The following deductions shall be made from Tier 1 Capital:
(i) Intangible assets and losses in the current period and those brought
forward from previous periods.
(ii) Deferred Tax Assets (DTA)
(iii) The net unrealised gains arising on fair valuation of Level 3 financial
instruments (derivatives) shall be deducted from Tier 1 Capital.
27

Deductions from Tier 1 and Tier 2 Capital
17. The following deductions shall be made from Tier 1 and Tier 2 Capital:
(1) The investments of an LAB in the equity as well as non-equity capital instruments
issued by a subsidiary, which are reckoned towards its regulatory capital as
per norms prescribed by the respective regulator, shall be deducted at 50 per
cent each, from Tier 1 and Tier 2 Capital of the parent bank, while assessing the
capital adequacy of the bank on standalone basis.
(2) If a LAB’s contribution is in the form of subordinated units of any AIF scheme,
then it shall deduct the entire investment from its capital funds – proportionately
from both Tier-1 and Tier-2 capital (wherever applicable).
Note - An LAB shall also refer to Reserve Bank of India (Local Area Banks –
Miscellaneous) Directions, 2025 in this regard.
(3) An LAB shall be guided by the Reserve Bank of India (Local Area Banks –
Transfer and Distribution of Credit Risk) Directions, 2025 for the prudential
treatment of unrealised profits arising because of transfer of loan exposures and
Security Receipts (SR) guaranteed by the Government of India.
(4) In terms of the Reserve Bank of India (Local Area Banks – Credit Facilities)
Directions, 2025, if a bank is the Default Loss Guarantee (DLG) provider, it shall
deduct full amount of the DLG, which is outstanding, from its capital.
F Limit for Tier 2 elements
18. Tier 2 elements shall be limited to a maximum of 100 per cent of total Tier 1
elements for the purpose of compliance with the capital adequacy norms.
G Norms on cross holdings
19. An LAB shall follow following norms on cross holdings:
(1) An LAB’s investments in all types of instruments listed at paragraph 19(2) below,
which are issued by other banks / FIs and are eligible for capital status for the
investee bank / FI, shall be limited to 10 per cent of the investing LAB’s total
regulatory capital (Tier 1 plus Tier 2 Capital).
(2) An LAB’s investment in the following instruments shall be included in the
prudential limit of 10 per cent referred at paragraph 19(1) above.
28

(i) Equity shares;
(ii) Preference shares eligible for capital status;
(iii) PDI eligible as Tier 1 Capital;
(iv) Subordinated debt instruments;
(v) Debt capital Instruments qualifying for Upper Tier 2 status; and
(vi) Any other instrument approved as in the nature of capital.
(3) A bank / FI shall not acquire any fresh stake in an LAB's equity shares, if by such
acquisition, the investing bank's / FI's holding exceeds 10 per cent of the investee
LAB's equity capital.
(4) Investments in the instruments issued by a bank / FI which are listed at
paragraph 19(2) above, which are not deducted from capital of the investing
LAB, shall attract 100 per cent risk weight for credit risk for capital adequacy
purposes.
(5) An indicative list of institutions which may be deemed to be FI for capital
adequacy purposes is as under:
(i) Banks,
(ii) Mutual funds,
(iii) Insurance companies,
(iv) Non-banking financial companies,
(v) Housing finance companies,
(vi) Merchant banking companies, and
(vii) Primary dealers.
(6) The following investments shall be excluded from the purview of the ceiling of
10 per cent prudential norm prescribed in paragraph 19(1) above:
(i) Investments in equity shares of other banks / FIs in India held under the
provisions of a statute.
29

(ii) Strategic investments in equity shares of other banks / FIs incorporated
outside India as promoters / significant shareholders (i.e., Foreign
Subsidiaries / Joint Ventures / Associates).
(iii) Equity holdings outside India in other banks / FIs incorporated outside India.
H Capital charge for subsidiaries
20. A consolidated bank, defined as a group of entities which include a licensed bank,
shall maintain a minimum CRAR as applicable to the parent bank on an ongoing
basis. The parent bank shall consider the following points while computing
capital funds:
(i) An LAB shall maintain a minimum CRAR of 9 per cent. A non-bank
subsidiary shall maintain the capital adequacy ratio prescribed by its
respective regulators. In case of any shortfall in the capital adequacy ratio
of any of the subsidiaries, the parent shall maintain capital in addition to its
own regulatory requirements to cover the shortfall.
(ii) Risks inherent in deconsolidated entities in the group shall be assessed
and any shortfall in the regulatory capital in the deconsolidated entities shall
be deducted (in equal proportion from Tier 1 and Tier 2 Capital) from the
consolidated bank's capital in the proportion of its equity stake in the entity.
30

Chapter III
Calculation of risk weighted assets (RWAs)
A Capital charge for credit risk
21. An LAB shall manage the credit risk in its books on an ongoing basis The
applicable risk weights for calculation of RWAs for credit risk are as under:
(1) Risk weights for calculation of capital charge for credit risk for on-balance sheet
items
Sr. Risk
Item
No. Weight (%)
I Balances
1. Ca sh and balances with the Reserve Bank 0
i. Balances in current accounts with other bank 20
2.
ii. Claims on bank 20
II Investments (applicable to securities held in banking book)
1. Inv estments in Government Securities. 0
Investments in other approved securities guaranteed by Central / State Government
Note - If the repayment of principal / interest in respect of State Government
guaranteed securities included in item (2), (4) and (6) has remained in default, for
2. a period of more than 90 days a bank shall assign 100 per cent risk weight. 0
However, the bank shall assign 100 per cent risk weight only on those State
Government guaranteed securities issued by the defaulting entities and not on all
the securities issued or guaranteed by that State Government.
Investments in other securities where payment of interest and repayment of principal
are guaranteed by Central Government (this shall include investments in Indira /
3. 0
Kisan Vikas Patra (IVP / KVP) and investments in bonds and debentures where
payment of interest and principal is guaranteed by Central Government)
Investments in other securities where payment of interest and repayment of principal
4. 0
are guaranteed by State Governments.
Investments in other approved securities where payment of interest and
5. 20
repayment of principal are not guaranteed by Central / State Government.
Investments in the Government guaranteed securities of Government
6. Un dertakings which do not form part of the approved market borrowing 20
programme.
7. Cl aims on commercial bank 20
8. Inv estments in bonds issued by other bank 20
Investments in securities which are guaranteed by bank as to payment of interest and
9. 20
repayment of principal.
Investments in subordinated debt instruments and bonds issued by other bank or
10. 100
Public Financial Institutions (PFI) for their Tier 2 capital.
31

Sr. Risk
Item
No. Weight (%)
Deposits placed with SIDBI / NABARD / NHB/ MUDRA Ltd. in lieu of shortfall in lending
11. 100
to priority sector.
Investments in debentures / bonds / security receipts / issued by securitisation company
12. 100
/ SPVs / Reconstruction Company and held by banks as investment
All other investments including investments in securities issued by PFI.
13. Note - Equity investments in subsidiaries, intangible assets and losses deducted from 100
Tier 1 capital shall be assigned zero weight.
Direct investment in equity shares, convertible bonds, debentures and units of
14. 125
equity oriented mutual funds including those exempted from capital market exposure
15. Investments in Venture Capital Funds 150
16. NPA Investment purchased from other bank 100
17. Investments in instruments issued by NBFC wherever allowed 100
Loans and Advances including bills purchased and discounted and other credit
III
facilities
Loans guaranteed by Government of India
Note - Individual schemes under NCGTC that are backed by explicit central government
1. 0
guarantee and applicable for LABs are included in this category, subject to compliance
with stipulations of para 21(9) of this Chapter.
Loans guaranteed by State Government
2. Note - If the loans guaranteed by State Government have remained in default for 0
a period of more than 90 days a risk weight of 100 percent shall be assigned.
3. Loans granted to public sector undertakings of Government of India 100
4. Loans granted to public sector undertakings of State Government 100
For the purpose of credit exposure, bills purchased / discounted / negotiated under
LC (where payment to the beneficiary is not under reserve) is treated as an exposure
5(i) 20
on the LC issuing bank and assigned risk weight as is normally applicable to inter-bank
exposures.
Bills negotiated under LCs 'under reserve', bills purchased /
discounted / negotiated without LCs, shall be reckoned as exposure on the
(ii)
borrower constituent. Accordingly, the exposure shall attract a risk weight
appropriate to the borrower.
Government 0
Bank 20
Others 100
6. Others including public financial institutions (PFI) 100
7. Leased assets 100
Advances covered by DICGC / ECGC
Note - The risk weight of 50 per cent shall be limited to the amount guaranteed and
8. 50
not the entire outstanding balance in the accounts. In other words, the
outstanding in excess of the amount guaranteed, shall carry 100 per cent risk weight.
Micro and Small Enterprises (MSE) Advances Guaranteed by Credit Guarantee Fund
9. 0
Trust for Micro and Small Enterprises (CGTMSE) up to the guaranteed portion,
32

Sr. Risk
Item
No. Weight (%)
subject to compliance with stipulations of para 21(9) of these Directions.
Note - Banks shall assign zero risk weight for the guaranteed portion. The balance
outstanding in excess of the guaranteed portion shall attract a risk-weight as
appropriate to the counter- party. Two illustrative examples are given in the paragraph
21(2) of these Directions.
Advances against term deposits, Life policies, NSCs, IVPs and KVPs where adequate
10. 0
margin is available.
Loans and Advances granted to staff of banks which are fully covered by
11. 20
superannuation benefits and mortgage of flat / house.
Risk
Category of Loan LTV Ratio (%) Weight
(%)
(a) Individual Housing Loans
(i) Up to ₹20 lakh 90 50
12.
(ii) Above ₹20 lakh and up to ₹75 lakh 80 50
(iii) Above ₹75 lakh 75 75
(b) Commercial Real Estate – Residential NA 75
Housing (CRE-RH)@
(c) Commercial Real Estate (CRE)* NA 100
Housing loans guaranteed by Credit Risk Guarantee Fund Trust for Low Income
Housing (CRGFTLIH) up to the guaranteed portion, subject to compliance with
stipulations of para 21(9) of these Directions.
13. 0
Note - Banks shall assign zero risk weight for the guaranteed portion. The balance
outstanding in excess of the guaranteed portion shall attract a risk-weight as
appropriate to the counterparty.
Consumer credit including personal loans, but excluding housing loans, education
14. 125
loans, vehicle loans and loans secured by gold and gold jewellery
15. Credit card receivables 125
16. Educational loans 100
17. Loans up to ₹1 lakh against gold and silver ornaments 50
18. Takeout finance
20
(i) Unconditional takeover (in the books of lending institution)
(a) Where full credit risk is assumed by the taking over institution
(b) Where only partial credit risk is assumed by taking over institution
(i) The amount to be taken over
20
(ii) The amount not to be taken over
100
(ii) Conditional take-over (in the books of lending and Taking over institution) 100
19. Capital Market Exposures (CME) including those exempted from CME Norms 125
20. NPA purchased from other banks 100
21. Loans and Advances to NBFC wherever allowed 100
33

Sr. Risk
Item
No. Weight (%)
IV Other Assets
1. Premises, furniture and fixtures 100
2. Income tax deducted at source (net of provision) 0
Advance tax paid (net of provision) 0
Interest due on Government securities 0
Accrued interest on CRR balances and claims on the Reserve Bank on account of
Government transactions (net of claims of the Government / Reserve Bank on banks 0
on account of such transactions)
3. All other assets# 100
Notes:
*An exposure may be classified simultaneously into more than one category, as
different classifications are driven by different considerations. In such cases, the
exposure shall be reckoned for regulatory / prudential exposure limit, if any, fixed by
the Reserve Bank or by the LAB itself, for all the categories to which the
exposure is assigned. For the purpose of capital adequacy, the largest of the risk
weights applicable among all the categories shall be applicable for the exposure.
@CRE-RH shall consist of loans to builders / developers for residential housing
projects (except for captive consumption) under CRE segment. Such projects shall
ordinarily not include non-residential commercial real estate. However, integrated
housing projects comprising of some commercial space (e.g., shopping complex,
school, etc.) can also be classified under CRE-RH, provided that the commercial area
in the residential housing projects does not exceed 10 per cent of the total Floor Space
Index (FSI) of the project. In case the FSI of the commercial area in the predominantly
residential housing complex exceeds the ceiling of 10 per cent, the project loans shall
be classified as CRE and not CRE-RH. An LAB’s exposure to third dwelling unit
onwards to an individual shall also be treated as CRE exposures.
# The exposures to central counterparties (CCPs) on account of derivatives trading
and securities financing transactions (e.g., repos) outstanding against them, shall
be assigned zero exposure value for counterparty credit risk, as it is presumed that
the CCPs' exposures to their counterparties are fully collateralised on a daily basis,
thereby providing protection for the CCP's credit risk exposures. The deposits /
collaterals kept by an LAB with the CCPs shall attract risk weights appropriate to
34

the nature of the CCP. In the case of the Clearing Corporation of India Limited
(CCIL), the risk weight shall be 20 per cent.
Further, in case of investment in securitisation exposures, an LAB shall keep capital
charge equal to the actual exposure and will be subjected to supervisory scrutiny and
suitable action.
(2) Illustration on risk weights on MSE advances guaranteed by Credit Guarantee
Fund Trust for Micro and Small Enterprises (CGTMSE)
Example 1
CGTMSE Cover: 75 per cent of the amount outstanding or 75 per cent of the
unsecured amount or ₹18.75 lakh, whichever is less. Realisable value of security
₹1.50 lakh
(a) Balance outstanding : ₹10.00 lakh
(b) Realisable value of security : ₹1.50 lakh
(c) Unsecured amount (a) - (b) : ₹8.50 lakh
(d) Guaranteed portion (75% of (c)) : ₹6.38 lakh
(e) Uncovered portion (8.50 lakh – 6.38 lakh) : ₹2.12 lakh
Risk-weight on (b) and (e) - Linked to the counterparty
Risk-weight on (d) - Zero
Example 2
CGTMSE cover: 75 per cent of the amount outstanding or 75 per cent of the
unsecured amount or ₹18.75 lakh whichever is less. Realisable value of security is
₹10.00 lakh.
(a) Balance outstanding : ₹40.00 lakh
(b) Realisable value of security : ₹10.00 lakh
(c) Unsecured amount (a) - (b) : ₹30.00 lakh
(d) Guaranteed portion (max) : ₹18.75 lakh
(e) Uncovered portion (30 lakh – 18.5 lakh) : ₹11.25 lakh
Risk-weight (b) and (e) - Linked to the counter party
Risk-weight on (d) - Zero
35

(3) Credit conversion factor for off-balance sheet items
The credit risk exposure attached to off-balance sheet items shall be first calculated by
multiplying the face value of each of the off-balance sheet items by ‘Credit
Conversion Factor (CCF)’ as indicated in the table below. This shall then have to be
again multiplied by the risk weights attributable to the relevant counterparty as
specified in paragraph 21(1) above.
Sr.
Instruments CCF
No.
Direct credit substitutes e.g., general guarantees of indebtedness
(including standby L / Cs serving as financial guarantees for loans and
1. 100
securities) and acceptances (including endorsements with the character of
acceptance).
Certain transaction-related contingent items (e.g. performance
2. bon ds, bid bonds, warranties and standby L / Cs related to particular 50
transactions).
Short-term self-liquidating trade-related contingencies (such as
3. 20
documentary credits collateralised by the underlying shipments).
Sale and repurchase agreement and asset sales with recourse, where the
4. 100
credit risk remains with the bank.
Forward asset purchases, forward deposits and partly paid shares and
5. 100
securities, which represent commitments with certain draw down.
6. No te issuance facilities and revolving underwriting facilities. 50
Other commitments (e.g., formal standby facilities and credit lines) with an
7. 50
original maturity of over one year.
Similar commitments with an original maturity up to one year, or which
8. 0
can be unconditionally cancelled at any time.
Aggregate outstanding foreign exchange contracts of original
maturity -
9.
(i) less than one year 2
(ii) for each additional year or part thereof 3
Take-out Finance in the books of taking-over institution
10. (i) Unconditional take-out finance. 100
(ii) Conditional take-out finance. 50
Note - As the counter-party exposure shall determine the risk weight, it
shall be 100 per cent in respect of all borrowers or zero percent if covered
by Government guarantee.
11. Non-Funded exposures to commercial real estate. 150
Non-funded capital market exposures, including those exempted from CME
12. 125
norms.
13. Commitment to provide liquidity facility for securtisation of standard asset 100
36

transactions.
Second loss credit enhancement for securtisation of standard asset
14. 100
transactions provided by third party.
15. Non-funded exposure to NBFC wherever allowed. 100
Note -
(i) In regard to off-balance sheet items, the following transactions with non-
bank counterparties shall be treated as claims on banks and carry a risk-
weight of 20 per cent.
(ii) Guarantees issued by an LAB against the counter guarantees of other
banks.
(iii) Rediscounting of documentary bills accepted by banks. Bills discounted by
an LAB which have been accepted by another bank shall be treated as a
funded claim on a bank.
(iv) In all the above cases, an LAB should be fully satisfied that the risk
exposure is in fact on the other bank.
(4) While calculating the aggregate of funded and non-funded exposure of a
borrower for the purpose of assignment of risk weight, an LAB shall ‘net-off’
against the total outstanding exposure of the borrower.
(i) advances collateralised by cash margins or deposits;
(ii) credit balances in current or other accounts which are not earmarked for
specific purposes and free from any lien;
(iii) Provisions for depreciation or for bad debts made in respect of any assets;
(iv) claims received from DICGC / ECGC and kept in a separate account
pending adjustment; and
(v) subsidies received against advances in respect of Government sponsored
schemes and kept in a separate account.
(5) Risk weights for open positions
Sr. Risk weight
Item
No. (%)
37

1. Fo reign exchange open position. 100
2. Op en position in gold
Note - The risk weighted position both in respect of foreign exchange and
100
gold open position limits shall be added to the other risk weighted assets
for calculation of CRAR.
(6) Risk weights for forward rate agreement (FRA) / interest rate swap (IRS) and
foreign exchange contracts
(i) Foreign exchange contracts include - cross currency swaps, forward
foreign exchange contracts, currency futures and other contracts of a
similar nature.
(ii) Foreign exchange contracts with an original maturity of 14 calendar days
or less, irrespective of the counterparty, shall be assigned ‘zero’ risk
weight. However, in case effective bilateral netting contracts as specified
in paragraph 21(8) are in place, this exemption to foreign exchange
contracts with an original maturity of 14 calendar days or less shall not be
applicable.
(iii) For reckoning the minimum capital ratio, the computation of RWA on
account of FRAs / IRS and Foreign Exchange Contracts shall be done as
per the two steps procedure set out below:
(a) Step 1:
The notional principal amount of each instrument shall be multiplied by
the conversion factor given below:
Conversion Factor
Original Maturity Foreign exchange
Interest rate contracts
contracts
Less than one year 0.5 per cent 2.0 per cent
One year and less than two years 1.0 per cent 5.0 per cent
For each additional year 1.0 per cent 3.0 per cent
When effective bilateral netting contracts as specified in paragraph
21(8) are in place, the conversion factors, as mentioned in the table
below, shall be applicable:
38

Conversion Factor
Original Maturity
Interest rate Foreign exchange
contracts contracts
Less than one year 0.35 per cent 1.5 per cent
One year and less than two years 0.75 per cent 3.75 per cent
For each additional year 0.75 per cent 2.25 per cent
Note - For the purposes of calculating the credit exposure to a netting
counterparty for forward foreign exchange contracts and other similar
contracts in which notional principal is equivalent to cash flows, the
original credit conversion factors (i.e., without considering the impact of
bilateral netting) shall be applied to the notional principal, which is
defined as the net receipts falling due on each value date in each
currency. In no case should the reduced factors above be applied to net
notional amounts.
(b) Step 2:
The adjusted value thus obtained shall be multiplied by the risk
weightage allotted to the relevant counterparty as specified below:
Counter party Risk weight
Banks 20 per cent
Central and State Government 0 per cent
All others 100 per cent
Unhedged foreign currency exposures
(7) Exposures to entities with unhedged foreign currency exposures shall attract
incremental capital requirements (i.e., over and above the present capital
requirements) as under
Potential Loss / Earnings before
Interest and Depreciation (EBID) Incremental Capital Requirement
(per cent)
Up to 75 per cent 0
25 percentage point increase in the risk weight
(For example: for an entity which otherwise attracts a
More than 75 per cent
risk weight of 50 per cent, the applicable risk weight
shall become 75 per cent)
39

Note - An LAB shall refer to the Reserve Bank of India (Local Area Banks – Credit
Risk Management) Directions, 2025 for guidelines related to unhedged foreign
currency exposure.
(8) Requirement for recognition of bilateral netting contract
(i) An LAB may net transactions subject to novation under which any obligation
between an LAB and its counterparty to deliver a given currency on a given
value date is automatically amalgamated with all other obligations for the
same currency and value date, legally substituting one single amount for
the previous gross obligations.
(ii) An LAB may also net transactions subject to any legally valid form of
bilateral netting not covered in (1), including other forms of novation.
(iii) In both cases (i) and (ii), an LAB shall need to satisfy that it has:
(a) A netting contract or agreement with the counterparty which creates a
single legal obligation, covering all included transactions, such that
the LAB shall have either a claim to receive or obligation to pay only
the net sum of the positive and negative mark-to-market values of
included individual transactions in the event a counterparty fails to
perform due to any of the following: default, bankruptcy, liquidation, or
similar circumstances.
(b) Written and reasoned legal opinions that, in the event of a legal
challenge, the relevant courts and administrative authorities shall find
the LAB’s exposure to be such a net amount under:
(i) The law of the jurisdiction in which the counterparty is chartered
and, if the foreign branch of a counterparty is involved, then also
under the law of the jurisdiction in which the branch is located;
(ii) The law that governs the individual transactions; and
(iii) The law that governs any contract or agreement necessary to
effect the netting.
40

(c) Procedures in place to ensure that the legal characteristics of netting
arrangements are kept under review in the light of possible changes
in relevant law.
(iv) Contracts containing walkaway clauses shall not be eligible for netting
for the purpose of calculating capital requirements under these
guidelines. A walkaway clause is a provision which permits a non-
defaulting counterparty to make only limited payments or no payment at
all, to the estate of a defaulter, even if the defaulter is a net creditor.
(9) The risk weight of zero per cent as mentioned in paragraph 21(1) shall be
applicable in respect of exposures guaranteed under any existing or future
schemes launched by CGTMSE, CRGFTLIH and NCGTC satisfying the following
conditions:
(i) Prudential aspects: The guarantees provided under the respective
schemes shall comply with the requirements for credit risk mitigation in
terms of paragraphs 167 to 176 of Reserve Bank of India (Commercial
Banks - Prudential Norms on Capital Adequacy), 2025 which inter alia
requires such guarantees to be direct, explicit, irrevocable and
unconditional.
(ii) Restrictions on permissible claims: Where the terms of the guarantee
schemes restrict the maximum permissible claims through features like
specified extent of guarantee coverage, clause on first loss absorption by
member lending institutions (MLI), payout cap, etc., the zero per cent risk
weight shall be restricted to the maximum permissible claim and the
residual exposure shall be subjected to risk weight as applicable to the
counterparty in terms of extant regulations.
(iii) In case of a portfolio-level guarantee, effective from April 1, 2023, the extent
of exposure subjected to first loss absorption by the MLI, if any, shall be
subjected to full capital deduction and the residual exposure shall be
subjected to risk weight as applicable to the counterparty in terms of extant
regulations, on a pro rata basis. The maximum capital charge shall be
capped at a notional level arrived at by treating the entire exposure as
unguaranteed.
41

(iv) Subject to the aforementioned prescriptions, any scheme launched after
September 7, 2022, under any of the aforementioned Trust Funds, in order
to be eligible for zero per cent risk weight, shall provide for settlement of the
eligible guaranteed claims within thirty days from the date of lodgment, and
the lodgment shall be permitted within sixty days from the date of default.
Some illustrative examples of risk weights applicable on claims guaranteed
under specific existing schemes are as follows:
Scheme name Guarantee Cover Risk Weight
1. Credit Guarantee The first loss of 10% of the amount in First loss of 10% amount in
Fund Scheme for default to be borne by Factors. The default – Full capital deduction
Factoring (CGFSF) remaining 90% (i.e., second loss) of the
60% amount in default borne by
amount in default will be borne by
NCGTC- 0% RW.
NCGTC and Factors in the ratio of 2:1
Balance 30% amount in default
respectively
Counterparty / Regulatory Retail
Portfolio (RRP) RW as
applicable.
Note - The maximum capital
charge shall be capped at a
notional level arrived by treating
the entire exposure as
unguaranteed.
2. Credit Guarantee 75% of the amount in default. Entire amount in default -
Fund Scheme for Skill Counterparty / Regulatory Retail
100% of the guaranteed claims shall be
Development Portfolio (RRP) RW as
paid by the Trust after all avenues for
(CGFSD) applicable.
recovery have been exhausted and
there is no scope for recovering the
default amount.
3. Credit Guarantee Micro Loans First loss of 3% amount in
Fund for Micro Units default – Full capital deduction
The first loss to the extent of 3% of
(CGFMU)
amount in default. 72.75% of the amount in default
- 0% RW, subject to maximum of
Out of the balance, guarantee will be to
a maximum extent of 75% of the amount
in default in the crystallized portfolio SLA
({15%∗CP}−C)∗� �
Where- CP
42

Scheme name Guarantee Cover Risk Weight
o CP = Crystallized Portfolio
(sanctioned amount)
o C = Claims received in
previous years, if any, in the
crystallized portfolio
o SLA = Sanctioned limit of each
account in the crystallized
portfolio
o 15 % represents the payout
cap
Balance amount in default -
Counterparty / RRP RW as
applicable.
Note - The maximum capital
charge shall be capped at a
notional level arrived by treating
the entire exposure as
unguaranteed.
4. CGTMSE Up to ₹5 lakh Guaranteed amount in default –
guarantee coverage 0% RW*
85% of the amount in default subject to
for Micro-Enterprises
a maximum of ₹4.25 lakh Balance amount in default -
Counterparty / RRP RW as
Above ₹5 lakh & up to ₹50 lakh
applicable.
75% of the amount in default subject to
a maximum of ₹37.50 lakh
Above ₹50 lakh & up to ₹200 lakh
75% of the amount in default subject to
a maximum of ₹150 lakh
*In terms of the payout cap stipulations of CGTMSE, claims of the member lending institutions will
be settled to the extent of 2 times of the fee including recovery remitted during the previous financial
year. However, since the balance claims will be settled in subsequent year / s as the position is
remedied, the entire extent of guaranteed portion may be assigned zero percent risk weight.
43

Note -
(a) The above regulatory stipulation shall be applicable to a bank to the
extent it is recognised as eligible MLIs under the respective schemes.
(b) Guarantee coverage, first loss percentage and payout cap ratio may
be factored in as given above and as amended from time to time in
the respective schemes
B Capital charge for market risk
Scope and coverage of capital charge for market risks
22. The capital charge for market risk shall cover the capital charges for interest
rate-related instruments in the trading book, equities in the trading book and
foreign exchange risk (including gold and other precious metals) in both
trading and banking books. Instruments under banking book shall attract
corresponding capital charge for credit risk (or counterparty credit risk, where
applicable).
Note - At present, an LAB is not permitted to carry out activities involving foreign
exchange or derivative positions. However, as and when these activities are
allowed, the relevant instructions shall become applicable to it.
23. An LAB shall manage the market risks in its books on an ongoing basis. An
LAB shall also maintain strict risk management systems to monitor and
control intra-day exposures to market risks.
Measurement of capital charge for interest rate risk in trading book other than
derivatives
24. The capital charge for interest rate related instruments shall apply to the fair value
of these items in the LAB’s trading book. The fair value shall be determined as
per the Reserve Bank of India (Local Area Banks – Classification, Valuation and
Operation of Investment Portfolio) Directions, 2025. The minimum capital
requirement is expressed in terms of following two separate capital charges.
(i) Specific risk charge for each security, both for short and long positions.
44

(ii) General market risk charge towards interest rate risk in the portfolio
where long and short positions in different securities or instruments can
be offset.
In India, short position is not allowed except in case of derivatives and Central
Government securities. An LAB shall follow the framework specified hereunder
for capital charge for both specific risk and general market risk for interest
rate risk in the trading book other than derivatives.
Specific risk
25. The capital charge for specific risk is designed to protect against an adverse
movement in the price of an individual security owing to factors related to the
individual issuer. The specific risk charge is graduated for various exposures
under three heads: (i) claims on Government, (ii) claims on banks, and (iii) claims
on others as under.
Specific risk
Sr. capital charge
Nature of investment Maturity
No. (as % of
exposure)
Claims on Government
1. Government Securities. All 0.0
Other approved securities guaranteed by Central /
2. All 0.0
State Government.
Other securities where payment of interest and
repayment of principal are guaranteed by Central Govt.
(This shall include investments in Indira / Kisan Vikas
3. All 0.0
Patra (IVP / KVP) and investments in Bonds and
Debentures where payment of interest and principal is
guaranteed by Central Govt.)
Other securities where payment of interest and
4. repayment of principal are guaranteed by State All 0.0
Governments.
Other approved securities where payment of interest
5. and repayment of principal are not guaranteed by All 1.80
Central / State Govt.
Government guaranteed securities of Government
6. Undertakings which do not form part of the approved All 1.80
market borrowing programme.
State government guaranteed securities included
under items 2, 4 and 6 above where the investment is
7. non-performing. However, the banks need to maintain All 9.00
capital at 9.0% only on those State Government
guaranteed securities issued by the defaulting entities
45

Specific risk
Sr. capital charge
Nature of investment Maturity
No. (as % of
exposure)
and not on all the securities issued or guaranteed by
that State Government.
Claims on Banks
For residual term
to final maturity 6 0.30
months or less
For residual term
Claims on banks, including investments in to final maturity
1.125
8. securities which are guaranteed by banks as to payment between 6 and 24
of interest and repayment of principal months
For residual term
to final maturity
1.80
exceeding 24
months
Subordinated debt instruments and bonds issued by
9. All 9.00
other banks for their Tier 2 capital.
Claims on Others
10. All other investments. All 9.00
Direct investments in equity shares, convertible bonds,
debentures and units of equity oriented mutual funds
11. All 11.25
including those exempted from Capital Market
Exposure norms.
12. Venture Capital Funds All 13.5
13. Instruments issued by NBFC wherever allowed All 9.00
Security Receipts issued by Securitisation Company /
14. All 13.5
Asset Reconstruction Company
The category ‘Claim on Government’ shall include all forms of Government
securities, including dated Government securities, Treasury bills and other
short-term investments and instruments where repayment of both principal and
interest are fully guaranteed by the Government. The category 'Claims on
others' shall include issuers of securities other than Government and banks.
General market risk
26. The capital charge for general market risk shall be calculated as under.
46

(1) The capital charge for general market risk is designed to capture the risk of loss
arising from changes in market interest rates. The capital charge shall be the
sum of the following three components.
(i) the net short (short position is not allowed in India except in derivatives and
Central Government Securities) or long position in the whole trading book;
(ii) a small proportion of the matched positions in each time-band (the ‘vertical
disallowance’); and
(iii) a larger proportion of the matched positions across different time-bands
(the ‘horizontal disallowance’).
(2) An LAB shall adopt the standardised duration method for computation of
capital charge for market risk. The LAB shall measure the general market risk
charge by calculating the price sensitivity (modified duration) of each position
separately. Under this method, the mechanics shall be as follows:
(i) first calculate the price sensitivity (modified duration) of each instrument;
(ii) next apply the assumed change in yield to the modified duration of each
instrument between 0.6 and 1.0 percentage points depending on the
maturity of the instrument as specified in Table A;
(iii) slot the resulting capital charge measures into a maturity ladder with the
fifteen-time bands as specified in Table A;
(iv) subject long and short positions in each time band to a 5 per cent vertical
disallowance designed to capture basis risk; and
(v) carry forward the net positions in each time-band for horizontal offsetting
subject to the disallowances specified in Table B.
Duration method
Table A - (Time bands and assumed changes in yield)
Assumed change in
Time bands
yield
Zone 1
1 month or less 1.00
1 to 3 months 1.00
47

Assumed change in
Time bands
yield
3 to 6 months 1.00
6 to 12 months 1.00
Zone 2
1.0 to 1.9 years 0.90
1.9 to 2.8 years 0.80
2.8 to 3.6 years 0.75
Zone 3
3.6 to 4.3 years 0.75
4.3 to 5.7 years 0.70
5.7 to 7.3 years 0.65
7.3 to 9.3 years 0.60
9.3 to 10.6 years 0.60
10.6 to 12 years 0.60
12 to 20 years 0.60
over 20 years 0.60
Table B - Horizontal disallowances
Within the Between Between zones
Zones Time band
zones adjacent zones 1 and 3
Zone 1 1 month or less 40%
1 to 3 months
3 to 6 months
6 to 12 months
Zone 2 1.0 to 1.9 years 30% 40%
1.9 to 2.8 years
100%
2.8 to 3.6 years
40%
Zone 3 3.6 to 4.3 years
4.3 to 5.7 years
5.7 to 7.3 years
30%
7.3 to 9.3 years
9.3 to 10.6 years
10.6 to 12 years
48

Within the Between Between zones
Zones Time band
zones adjacent zones 1 and 3
12 to 20 years
over 20 years
Note - Capital charges shall be calculated for each currency separately and then
summed with no offsetting between positions of opposite sign. In the case of
those currencies in which business is insignificant (where the turnover in the
respective currency is less than 5 per cent of overall foreign exchange turnover),
separate calculations for each currency are not required. The LAB can, instead, slot
within each appropriate time-band, the net long or short position for each currency.
However, these individual net positions shall be summed within each time-band,
irrespective of whether they are long or short positions, to produce a gross position
figure. In the case of residual currencies, the gross positions in each time-band
shall be subject to the assumed change in yield set out in Table A above with no
further offsets.
C Capital charge for interest rate derivatives
27. The measurement of capital charge for market risk shall include all interest rate
derivatives and off-balance sheet instruments in the trading book, which react
to changes in interest rates (e.g., forward rate agreements, other forward
contracts, etc.) and derivatives entered into for hedging trading book
exposures. The details of measurement of capital charge for interest rate
derivatives are outlined in the following paragraphs.
Measurement system in respect of interest rate derivatives
(1) Calculation of positions
The derivatives shall be converted into positions in the relevant underlying and
be subjected to specific and general market risk charges. In computation of the
capital charge, the amounts reported shall be the market value of the principal
amount of the underlying or of the notional underlying. For instruments where the
apparent notional amount differs from the effective notional amount, an LAB shall
use the effective notional amount.
49

(i) Futures and forward contracts including FRA: These instruments shall be
treated as a combination of a long and a short position in a notional
government security. The maturity of a future or an FRA shall be the period
until delivery or exercise of the contract, plus - where applicable - the life of
the underlying instrument. For example, a long position in a June three-
month interest rate future (taken in April) shall be reported as a long
position in a government security with a maturity of five months and a short
position in a government security with a maturity of two months. Where a
range of deliverable instruments may be delivered to fulfill the contract, a
bank has flexibility to elect which deliverable security goes into the duration
ladder but shall take account of any conversion factor defined by the
exchange.
(ii) Swaps: Swaps shall be treated as two notional positions in government
securities with relevant maturities. For example, an interest rate swap
under which a bank is receiving floating rate interest and paying fixed
shall be treated as a long position in a floating rate instrument of maturity
equivalent to the period until the next interest fixing and a short position in
a fixed-rate instrument of maturity equivalent to the residual life of the
swap. For swaps that pay or receive a fixed or floating interest rate
against some other reference price, e.g., a stock index, the interest rate
component shall be slotted into the appropriate re-pricing maturity category,
with the equity component being included in the equity framework.
Separate legs of cross-currency swaps shall be reported in the relevant
maturity ladders for the currencies concerned.
(2) Calculation of capital charges for derivatives under the standardised
methodology
(i) Allowable offsetting of matched positions
(a) An LAB shall exclude the following from the interest rate maturity
framework altogether (for both specific and general market risk).
(i) Long and short positions (both actual and notional) in identical
instruments with exactly the same issuer, coupon, currency and
maturity.
50

(ii) A matched position in a future or forward and its corresponding
underlying shall also be fully offset (the leg representing the time
to expiry of the future shall however be reported) and thus
excluded from the calculation.
(b) When the future or the forward comprises a range of deliverable
instruments, offsetting of positions in the future or forward contract
and its underlying is only permissible in cases where there is a readily
identifiable underlying security which is most profitable for the trader
with a short position to deliver. The price of this security, sometimes
called the ‘cheapest-to-deliver’, and the price of the future or forward
contract shall in such cases move in close alignment.
(c) No offsetting shall be allowed between positions in different
currencies; the separate legs of cross-currency swaps or forward
foreign exchange deals shall be treated as notional positions in the
relevant instruments and included in the appropriate calculation for each
currency.
(d) In addition, opposite positions in the same category of instruments
can in certain circumstances be regarded as matched and allowed
to offset fully. To qualify for this treatment the positions shall relate to
the same underlying instruments, be of the same nominal value and
be denominated in the same currency. In addition:
(i) for futures: offsetting positions in the notional or underlying
instruments to which the futures contract relates shall be for
identical products and mature within seven days of each other;
(ii) for swaps and FRAs: the reference rate (for floating rate
positions) shall be identical and the coupon closely matched
(i.e., within 15 basis points); and
(iii) for swaps, FRAs and forwards: the next interest fixing date or,
for fixed coupon positions or forwards, the residual maturity shall
correspond within the following limits:
(a) less than one month hence: same day;
51

(b) between one month and one year hence: within seven
days; and
(c) over one year hence: within thirty days.
(e) An LAB with large swap books can use alternative formulae for these
swaps to calculate the positions to be included in the duration ladder.
The method shall be to calculate the sensitivity of the net present value
implied by the change in yield used in the duration method and
allocate these sensitivities into the time-bands specified in Table A
above.
(ii) Specific risk
Interest rate and currency swaps, FRAs, forward foreign exchange contracts
and interest rate futures shall not be subject to a specific risk charge. This
exemption also applies to futures on an interest rate index. However, in the
case of futures contracts where the underlying is a debt security, or an
index representing a basket of debt securities, a specific risk charge shall
apply according to the credit risk of the issuer.
(iii) General market risk
General market risk applies to positions in all derivative products in the
same manner as for cash positions, subject only to an exemption for fully
or very closely matched positions in identical instruments as defined in
paragraphs above. The various categories of instruments shall be slotted
into the maturity ladder and treated according to the rules identified earlier.
Table - Summary of treatment of interest rate derivatives
Specific General Market risk
Instrument
risk charge charge
Exchange-traded future
- Government debt security No Yes, as two positions
- Corporate debt security Yes Yes, as two positions
No
- Index on interest rates (e.g., MIBOR) Yes, as two positions
OTC forward
- Government debt security No Yes, as two positions
- Corporate debt security Yes Yes, as two positions
No
- Index on interest rates (e.g., MIBOR) Yes, as two positions
FRAs, Swaps No Yes, as two positions
52

Specific General Market risk
Instrument
risk charge charge
Forward Foreign Exchange No Yes, as one position in each
currency
Measurement of capital charge for equities in the trading book
28. The capital charge for equities in trading book shall be calculated as under:
(1) Capital charge for equities in the trading book shall be applied to all instruments
that exhibit market behaviour similar to equities but not to non-convertible
preference shares (which are covered by the interest rate risk requirements).
The instruments covered include equity shares, whether voting or non-voting,
convertible securities that behave like equities, such as units of mutual funds, and
commitments to buy or sell equity. The capital charge for equities shall apply to
the fair value of these items in the LAB’s trading book.
(2) Capital charge for specific risk (akin to credit risk) shall be 11.25 per cent.
Specific risk shall be computed on the LAB’s gross equity positions (the sum of
all long equity positions and of all short equity positions. Short equity position is,
however, not allowed for a bank in India). The general market risk charge shall
be 9 per cent on the gross equity positions.
(3) Investments in shares and units of venture capital funds (VCFs) shall be
assigned 150 per cent risk weight for measuring the credit risk when these
are held under banking book. When these are held under or transferred to
trading book, the capital charge for a specific risk component of the market risk
shall be fixed at 13.5 per cent to reflect the risk weight of 150 per cent. The charge
for general market risk component shall be at 9 per cent as in the case of other
equities.
Measurement of capital charge for foreign exchange and gold open positions
29. Foreign exchange open positions and gold open positions shall be risk weighted at
100 per cent. Capital charge for foreign exchange and gold open positions
(limits or actual whichever is higher) shall attract capital charge at 9 per cent.
Aggregation of capital charge for market risks
30. The capital charges for specific risk and general market risk shall be
computed separately before aggregation. For computing the total capital charge
53

for market risks, the calculations shall be plotted in the proforma as per the Table
below.
Total capital charge for market risk
(₹ crore)
Risk Category Capital charge
I. Interest rate (a + b)
a. General market risk
i. Net position (parallel shift)
ii. Horizontal disallowance (curvature)
iii. Vertical disallowance (basis)
b. Specific risk
II. Equity (a + b)
a. General market risk
b. Specific risk
III. Foreign exchange and gold
IV. Total capital charge for market risks (I + II + III)
Computation of capital available for market risk
31. Capital required for supporting credit risk shall be deducted from total capital
funds to arrive at capital available for supporting market risk as illustrated below.
(₹ in crore)
Capital funds 105
1 Tier 1 Capital 55
Tier 2 Capital 50
2 Total risk weighted assets 1140
RWA for credit risk 1000
RWA for market risk 140
3 Total CRAR 9.21
4 Minimum capital required to support credit risk (1000*9%) 90
Tier 1 - 45 (@ 4.5% of 1000) 45
Tier 2 - 45 (@ 4.5% of 1000) 45
5 Capital available to support market risk (105 - 90) 15
Tier 1 - (55 - 45) 10
Tier 2 - (50 - 45) 5
54

D Calculation of total risk weighted assets (RWAs) and capital ratio
32. The following steps shall be followed for calculation of total RWA and capital
ratio:
(i) Compute the RWAs for credit risk in the banking book and for counterparty
credit risk on all OTC derivatives.
(ii) Convert the capital charge for market risk to notional risk weighted assets
by multiplying the capital charge arrived at in Table under paragraph 30
above, by 100 ÷ 9 [the present requirement of CRAR is 9 per cent and
hence notional risk weighted assets are arrived at by multiplying the capital
charge by (100 ÷ 9)]
(iii) Add the RWAs for credit risk as at (i) above and notional risk-weighted
assets of trading book as at (ii) above to arrive at total risk weighted assets
for the bank.
(iv) Compute capital ratio on the basis of regulatory capital maintained and
RWAs.
33. Two examples for computing capital charge for market risk and credit risk are as
under.
(1) Example 1: Case where the trading book does not contain equities and interest
rate related derivative instruments
Assumptions:
(i) An LAB may have the following position:
Amount
Sl. No. Details
(in ₹ Crore)
1 Cash and Balances with the Reserve Bank 200.00
2 Bank balances 200.00
3 Investments 2000.00
3.1 Trading book 1500.00
3.2 Banking book 500.00
4 Advances (net) 2000.00
5 Other Assets 300.00
6 Total Assets 4700.00
55

(ii) In terms of counterparty, the investments are assumed to be as under.
Government - ₹1000 crore
Banks - ₹500 crore
Others - ₹500 crore
For simplicity, the details of investments are assumed to be as under:
(a) Government Securities:
Amount
Date of Date of
Maturity Date (₹ in Coupon (%) Type
Issue reporting
crore)
01/03/2010 31/03/2021 01/03/2022 100 12.50 Trading Book
01/05/2011 31/03/2021 01/05/2021 100 12.00 Trading Book
01/03/2012 31/03/2021 31/05/2021 100 12.00 Trading Book
01/03/2013 31/03/2021 01/03/2033 100 12.00 Trading Book
01/03/2016 31/03/2021 01/03/2028 100 11.50 Trading Book
01/03/2017 31/03/2021 01/03/2027 100 11.00 Trading Book
01/03/2018 31/03/2021 01/03/2023 100 10.50 Trading Book
01/03/2019 31/03/2021 01/03/2024 100 10.00 Banking Book
01/03/2020 31/03/2021 01/03/2030 100 8.00 Banking Book
01/03/2021 31/03/2021 01/03/2041 100 6.50 Banking Book
Total 1000
(b) Bank bonds:
Date of Date of Amount Coupon
Maturity Date Type
Issue reporting (₹ in crore) (%)
01/03/2010 31/03/2021 01/03/2022 100 12.50 Trading Book
01/05/2011 31/03/2021 01/05/2021 100 12.00 Trading Book
01/03/2012 31/03/2021 31/05/2021 100 12.00 Trading Book
01/03/2013 31/03/2021 01/03/2024 100 12.50 Trading Book
01/03/2016 31/03/2021 01/03/2025 100 11.50 Trading Book
Total 500
(c) Other securities
Date of Date of Maturity Date Amount Coupon Type
Issue reporting (₹ in crore) (%)
01/03/2010 31/03/2021 01/03/2022 100 12.50 Trading Book
01/05/2011 31/03/2021 01/05/2021 100 12.00 Trading Book
01/03/2012 31/03/2021 31/05/2021 100 12.00 Trading Book
01/03/2013 31/03/2021 01/03/2024 100 12.50 Banking Book
01/03/2016 31/03/2021 01/03/2035 100 11.50 Banking Book
Total 500
(d) Overall position
Break-up of total investments (₹ in crore)
56

Government
Bank bonds Other securities Total
Securities
Trading Book 700 500 300 1500
Banking Book 300 0 200 500
Total 1000 500 500 2000
(iii) Computation of RWA
(a) RWA for credit Risk
While computing the RWA for credit risk, the securities held under trading book shall
be excluded and hence the RWA for credit risks shall be as under.
Risk
Sr. Market
Details of Assets Weight RWA
No. Value*
(%)
1 Cash and balances with the Reserve Bank 200 0 0
2 Bank balances 200 20 40
3 Investments:
Government 300 0 0
Banks 0 20 0
Others 200 100 200
4 Advances (net) 2000 100 2000
5 Other Assets 300 100 300
6 Total Assets 3200 2540
*Assumed as market value for illustration.
(b) RWA for market risk (Trading Book) [Please refer to table in paragraph 33(1)(ii)(d)
of this example]
Specific risk
(i) Government securities: ₹700 crore - NIL
(ii) Bank bonds:
(Amount in ₹ crore)
Details Capital Capital
Amount
charge charge
For residual term to final maturity 6 months or less 0.30% 200 0.60
For residual term to final maturity between 6 and 24
1.125% 100 1.125
months
For residual term to final maturity exceeding 24 months 1.80% 200 3.60
Total 500 5.325
(iii) Other securities: ₹300 crore @ 9% = ₹27 crore
57

(iv) Total charge for specific risk (i)+(ii)+(iii) = ₹0 crore+ ₹5.325 crore + ₹27 crore
= ₹32.325 crore
Therefore, capital charge for specific risk in trading book is ₹32.33 crore.
General market risk
(iv) Modified Duration is used to arrive at the price sensitivity of an interest rate related
instrument. For all the securities listed below, date of reporting is taken as 31/3/2021.
(Amount in ₹ crore)
Capital Charge
Amount
Counter Party Maturity Date Coupon (%) For general
(market value)
market risk
Government 01/03/2022 100 12.50 0.84
Government 01/05/2021 100 12.00 0.08
Government 31/05/2021 100 12.00 0.16
Government 01/03/2033 100 12.50 3.63
Government 01/03/2028 100 11.50 2.79
Government 01/03/2027 100 11.00 2.75
Government 01/03/2023 100 10.50 1.35
Banks 01/03/2022 100 12.50 0.84
Banks 01/05/2021 100 12.00 0.08
Banks 31/05/2021 100 12.00 0.16
Banks 01/03/2024 100 12.50 1.77
Banks 01/03/2025 100 11.50 2.29
Others 01/03/2022 100 12.50 0.84
Others 01/05/2021 100 12.00 0.08
Others 31/05/2021 100 12.00 0.16
Total 1500 17.82
(v) Total charge for market risk
The total charge for the trading book of interest rate related instruments shall be sum
of the capital charges for specific risk and general market risk. Therefore, capital
charge for market risks = ₹32.33 crore + ₹17.82 crore, i.e., ₹50.15 crore. The capital
charge shall be converted into equivalent RWA by multiplying it with (100 ÷ 9) [as for
an LAB, the minimum CRAR is 9 per cent]. Thus, RWAs for market risk shall be
50.15*(100 ÷ 9) = ₹557.23 crore.
(vi) Computing the capital ratio
(Amount in ₹ crore)
1 Total Capital 400
2 RWA for Credit Risk 2540.00
3 RWA for Market Risk 557.23
58

4 Total RWA (2+3) 3097.23
5 CRAR [(1÷4) * 100] 12.91%
Example 2: Indicating computation of capital charge for credit and market risks - with
equities and interest rate related derivative instruments. Foreign exchange and gold
open positions also have been assumed.
Assumptions
(i) An LAB may have the following position:
Sr.
Details ₹ in Crore
No.
1 Cash and balances with the Reserve Bank 200.00
2 Bank balances 200.00
3 Investments
3.1 Interest Rate related Securities
Trading Book 1500.00
Banking Book 500.00
3.2 Equities – Trading Book 300.00
4 Advances (net) 2000.00
5 Other Assets 300.00
6 Total Assets 5000.00
(ii) Foreign exchange open position limit is assumed as ₹60 crore and gold open
position is assumed at ₹40 crore. It is also assumed that the LAB is having the
following positions in interest rate related derivatives:
(a) Interest Rate Swaps (IRS), ₹100 crore – bank received floating rate interest
and pays fixed, next interest fixing after 6 months, residual life of swap 8 years,
and
(b) Long position in interest rate future (IRF), ₹50 crore, delivery after 6 months,
life of underlying government security 3.5 years.
(iii) In terms of counterparty the investments are assumed to be as under:
a) Interest rate related securities
Government ₹1000 crore
Banks ₹500 crore
Corporate Bonds ₹500 crore
b) Equities
Others ₹300 crore
59

(iv) For interest rate swaps and interest rate futures the counterparties are assumed
to be corporates.
(v) For simplicity, following assumptions are made regarding investments in interest
rate related securities:
(a) Government securities
Date of Date of Maturity Date Amount Coupon Type
Issue reporting (in ₹ crore) (%)
01/03/2010 31/03/2021 01/03/2022 100 12.50 Trading Book
01/05/2011 31/03/2021 01/05/2021 100 12.00 Trading Book
01/03/2012 31/03/2021 31/05/2021 100 12.00 Trading Book
01/03/2013 31/03/2021 01/03/2033 100 12.50 Trading Book
01/03/2016 31/03/2021 01/03/2028 100 11.50 Trading Book
01/03/2017 31/03/2021 01/03/2027 100 11.00 Trading Book
01/03/2018 31/03/2021 01/03/2023 100 10.50 Trading Book
01/03/2019 31/03/2021 01/03/2024 100 10.00 Banking Book
01/03/2020 31/03/2021 01/03/2030 100 8.00 Banking Book
01/03/2021 31/03/2021 01/03/2041 100 6.50 Banking Book
Total 1000
(b) Bank bonds
Date of Date of Maturity Date Amount Coupon Type
Issue reporting (in ₹ crore) (%)
01/03/2010 31/03/2021 01/03/2022 100 12.50 Trading Book
01/05/2011 31/03/2021 01/05/2021 100 12.00 Trading Book
01/03/2012 31/03/2021 31/05/2021 100 12.00 Trading Book
01/03/2013 31/03/2021 01/03/2024 100 12.50 Trading Book
01/03/2016 31/03/2021 01/03/2025 100 11.50 Trading Book
Total 500
(c) Other securities
Date of Date of Maturity Date Amount Coupon Type
Issue reporting (in ₹ crore) (%)
01/03/2010 31/03/2021 01/03/2022 100 12.50 Trading Book
01/05/2021 31/03/2021 01/05/2021 100 12.00 Trading Book
01/03/2022 31/03/2021 31/05/2021 100 12.00 Trading Book
01/03/2013 31/03/2021 01/03/2024 100 12.50 Banking Book
01/03/2016 31/03/2021 01/03/2035 100 11.50 Banking Book
Total 500
(d) Overall position
Break-up of total investments (₹ in crore)
Interest rate related instruments
Grand
Government Bank Other Equity
Total Total
Securities bonds securities
Trading Book 700 500 300 1500 300 1800
60

Banking Book 300 0 200 500 0 500
Grand Total 1000 500 500 2000 300 2300
(vi) Computation of RWA
(a) RWAs for credit risk
The derivative products held by an LAB are assumed to be part of trading book. Open
position on foreign exchange and gold also shall be considered for market risk. While
computing the capital charge for credit risk, the securities held under trading book shall
be excluded and hence the credit risk-based risk-weights shall be as under:
(Amount in ₹ crore)
Details of assets Book value Risk weight RWA
Cash and balance with 200 0% 0
the Reserve Bank
Bank balances 200 20% 40
Investments in 300 0% 0
(Banking Book) 0 20% 0
Government 200 100% 200
Banks
Corporate Bonds
Advances (net) 2000 100% 2000
Other Assets 300 100% 300
Total 3200 2540
Credit Risk for OTC
Derivatives:
IRS 100 100% 8.00
(Credit conversion
factor - 1% + 1% per
year)
IRF 50 100% 0.25
(Credit conversion
factor for maturities
less than one year –
0.5%)
Total 3350 2548.25
(b) RWA for market risk [Please refer to table in paragraph 33(2)(v)(d) of this example]
(i) Specific risk
61

Investments in interest rate related instruments:
(a) Government securities - ₹700 crore - NIL
(b) Bank bonds
(Amount in ₹ crore)
Capital Capital
Details Amount
charge Charge
For residual term to final maturity 6 months 0.30% 200 0.600
or less
For residual term to final maturity between 6 1.125% 100 1.125
and 24 months
For residual term to final maturity exceeding 1.80% 200 3.600
24 months
Total 500 5.325
(c) Others ₹300 crore @ 9% = ₹27 crore
(d) Total: (a) + (b) + (c) = ₹0 crore+ ₹5.325 crore+ ₹27 crore = ₹32.325
crore
(e) Equities – capital charge of 9% = ₹27 crore
(f) Total specific charge (d+e) = ₹32.325 crore + ₹27 crore = ₹59.33
Therefore, capital charge for specific risk in the trading book is ₹59.33 crore (₹32.33
crore + ₹27 crore).
(ii) General market risk
(a) Investments in interest rate related instruments:
Modified Duration is used to arrive at the price sensitivity of an interest rate related
instrument. For all the securities listed below, date of reporting is taken as 31/3/2021.
(Amount in ₹ crore)
Capital
Amount market Charge for
Counter Party Maturity Date Coupon (%)
value general
market risk
Government 01/03/2022 100 12.50 0.84
Government 01/05/2021 100 12.00 0.08
Government 31/05/2021 100 12.00 0.16
Government 01/03/2033 100 12.50 3.63
Government 01/03/2028 100 11.50 2.79
Government 01/03/2027 100 11.00 2.75
Government 01/03/2023 100 10.50 1.35
62

Capital
Amount market Charge for
Counter Party Maturity Date Coupon (%)
value general
market risk
Banks 01/03/2022 100 12.50 0.84
Banks 01/05/2021 100 12.00 0.08
Banks 31/05/2021 100 12.00 0.16
Banks 01/03/2024 100 12.50 1.77
Banks 01/03/2025 100 11.50 2.29
Others 01/03/2022 100 12.50 0.84
Others 01/05/2021 100 12.00 0.08
Total 1500 17.82
(b) Positions in interest rate related derivatives
(i) Interest rate swap
Counter Maturity Date Notional Modified Assumed Capital
Party Amount (i.e., duration or change in charge*
market price yield
value) sensitivity (ACI)
GOI 30/09/2021 100 0.47 1.00 0.47
GOI 31/03/2029 100 5.14 0.60 (-) 3.08
(-) 2.61
(ii) Interest rate future
Counter Maturity Date Notional Modified Assumed Capital
Party Amount (i.e., duration or change in charge*
market price yield
value) sensitivity (ACI)
GOI 30/09/2021 50 0.45 1.00 (-) 0.225
GOI 31/03/2025 50 2.84 0.75 1.070
0.840
(c) Disallowances
The price sensitivities calculated as above have been slotted into a duration-based
ladder with fifteen time-bands as shown in table at the end of this paragraph. Long
and short positions within a time band have been subjected to vertical disallowance of
5 per cent. In the instant case, vertical disallowance is applicable under 3-6 month
time band and 7.3- 9.3 year time band. Then, net positions in each time band have
been computed for horizontal offsetting subject to the disallowances mentioned in the
table. In the instant case, horizontal disallowance is applicable only in respect of Zone
3. Horizontal disallowances in respect of adjacent zones are not applicable in the
instant case.
63

(i) Calculation of vertical disallowance
While calculating capital charge for general market risk on interest rate related
instruments, an LAB shall recognise the basis risk (different types of
instruments whose price responds differently for movement in general rates)
and gap risk (different maturities within time bands). This is addressed by a
small capital charge (5 per cent) on matched (off-setting) positions in each time
band (‘vertical disallowance’)
An off-setting position, for vertical disallowance, shall be either the sum of long
positions and or the short positions within a time band, whichever is lower. In
the table at the end of this paragraph, except for the time band 3-6 months in
Zone 1 and the time band of 7.3-9.3 years, where there are off-setting positions
of (-)0.22 and 2.79, there is no offsetting position in any other time band. The
sum of long positions in the 3-6 months’ time band is +0.47 and the sum of
short positions in this time band is (-)0.22. This offsetting position of 0.22 is
subjected to a capital charge of 5 per cent i.e., 0.01. The sum of long positions
in the 7.3-9.3 years’ time band is +2.79 and the sum of short positions in this
time band is (-)3.08. This off-setting position of 2.79 is subjected to a capital
charge of 5 per cent i.e., 0.1395. It may be mentioned here that if an LAB does
not have both long and short positions in the same time band, there is no need
for any vertical disallowance. An LAB is not allowed to take any short position
in its books, except in derivatives. Therefore, an LAB shall generally not be
subjected to vertical disallowance unless it has a short position in derivatives.
(ii) Calculation of horizontal disallowance
While calculating capital charge for general market risk on interest rate related
instruments, an LAB shall subject its positions to a second round of off-setting
across time bands with a view to give recognition to the fact that interest rate
movements are not perfectly correlated across maturity bands (yield curve risk
and spread risk) i.e., matched long and short positions in different time bands
may not perfectly off-set. This is achieved by a ‘horizontal disallowance’.
An off-setting position, for horizontal disallowance, shall be either the sum of
long positions and or the short positions within a Zone, whichever is lower. In
the above example, except in Zone 3 (7.3 to 9.3 years) where there is an off-
64

setting (matched) position of (-)0.29, there is no off-setting position in any other
Zone. The sum of long positions in this Zone is 9.74 and the sum of short
positions in this Zone is (-) 0.29. This off-setting position of 0.29 is subject to
horizontal disallowance as under:
Within the same Zone (Zone 3) 30% of 0.29 = 0.09
Between adjacent Zones (Zone 2 and 3) = NIL
Between Zones 1 and Zone 3 = NIL
(d) If an LAB does not have both long and short positions in different time zones, there
is no need for any horizontal disallowance.
(e) Total capital charge for interest rate related instruments is shown below:
For overall net position 16.06
For vertical disallowance 0.15
For horizontal disallowance in Zone 3 0.09
For horizontal disallowance in adjacent zones nil
For horizontal disallowance between Zone 1 and 3 Nil
Total capital charge for interest rate related instruments 16.30
(f) The total capital charge in this example for general market risk for interest rate
related instruments shall be computed as under:
Sl. No. Capital charge Amount (In ₹)
1 For the vertical disallowance (under 3-6 month time band) 1,12,500
2 For the vertical disallowance (under 7.3-9.3 year time band) 13,95,000
3 For the horizontal disallowance (under Zone 3) 9,00,000
4 For the horizontal disallowances between adjacent zones 0
5 For the overall net open position (17.82 – 2.61 + 0.84) 16,06,00,000
Total capital charge for general market risk on interest rate
6 16,30,07,500
related instruments (1 + 2 + 3 + 4 + 5)
(g) Equities: Capital charge for general market risk for equities shall be 9 per cent.
Thus, general market risk capital charge on equities shall be ₹27 crore.
(h) Forex / gold open position: Capital charge on forex / gold open position shall be
computed at 9 per cent. Thus, the same shall be ₹9 crore.
65

(i) Capital charge for market risks in this example shall be computed as under:
(Amount in ₹ crore)
Capital charge for Capital charge for
Details Total
Specific Risk General Market Risk
Interest instruments
32.33 16.30 48.63
rate related
Equities 27.00 27.00 54.00
Forex / Gold - 9.00 9.00
Total 59.33 52.30 111.63
(vii) Computing capital ratio
The capital charge for market risks shall be converted into equivalent RWAs by
multiplying it by (100 ÷ 9), i.e., ₹111.63*(100 ÷ 9) = ₹1240.33 crore [as an LAB requires
minimum CRAR of 9 per cent]. Therefore, RWA for market risk shall be ₹1240.33
crore. CRAR for the whole book may be computed as under:
(Amount in ₹ crore)
1 Total capital 400.00
2 RWAs for credit risk 2548.25
3 RWAs for market risk 1240.33
4 Total RWAs (2+3) 3788.58
5 CRAR [(1÷4) *100] 10.56 %
(2) Example for computing the capital charge including the vertical and horizontal
disallowances on interest rate related instruments
@ 2.79 x
** 0.22 x 5%=0.01 # 0.29 x 30%=0.09
5%=0.14
Zone 1 Zone 2 Zone 3
0-1 1-3 3-6 6m 1- 1.9- 2.8- 3.6- 4.3- 5.7- 7.3- 9.3- 10.6- 12- Over Capital
Time-band
month month month - 1y 1.9y 2.8y 3.6y 4.3y 5.7y 7.3y 9.3y 10.6y 12y 20y 20y Charge
Position 0.72 2.51 1.35 1.77 2.29 2.75 2.79 3.63 17.82
Derivatives 0.47 1.07 1.54
(long)
(-)0.22 (-)3.08
Derivatives (-)3.30
(short)
Net Position 0.72 0.25 2.51 1.35 1.77 3.36 2.75 (-)0.29 3.63 16.06
Vertical 0.01** 0.14@ 0.15
Disallowance
(5%)
66

Horizontal 0.09# 0.09
Disallowance 1
(under Zone 3)
Horizontal
disallowance 2
Horizontal
Disallowance 3
67

Chapter IV
Repeal and Other Provisions
A Repeal and Saving
34. With the issue of these Directions, the existing Directions, instructions, and
guidelines relating to Prudential Norms on Capital Adequacy as applicable to
Local Area Banks stand repealed, as communicated vide circular
DOR.RRC.REC.302/33-01-010/2025-26 dated November 28, 2025. The
Directions, instructions and guidelines repealed prior to the issuance of these
Directions shall continue to remain repealed.
35. Notwithstanding such repeal, any action taken or purported to have been taken,
or initiated under the repealed Directions, instructions, or guidelines shall
continue to be governed by the provisions thereof. All approvals or
acknowledgments granted under these repealed lists shall be deemed as
governed by these Directions. Further, the repeal of these directions,
instructions, or guidelines shall not in any way prejudicially affect:
(i) any right, obligation or liability acquired, accrued, or incurred thereunder;
(ii) any, penalty, forfeiture, or punishment incurred in respect of any
contravention committed thereunder;
(iii) any investigation, legal proceeding, or remedy in respect of any such right,
privilege, obligation, liability, penalty, forfeiture, or punishment as aforesaid;
and any such investigation, legal proceedings or remedy may be instituted,
continued, or enforced and any such penalty, forfeiture or punishment may
be imposed as if those directions, instructions, or guidelines had not been
repealed.
B Application of other laws not barred
36. The provisions of these Directions shall be in addition to, and not in derogation
of the provisions of any other laws, rules, regulations or Directions, for the time
being in force.
C Interpretations
37. For the purpose of giving effect to the provisions of these Directions or in order
to remove any difficulties in the application or interpretation of the provisions of
68

these Directions, the Reserve Bank may, if it considers necessary, issue
necessary clarifications in respect of any matter covered herein and the
interpretation of any provision of these Directions given by the Reserve Bank
shall be final and binding.
(Sunil T S Nair)
Chief General Manager
69

Annex I
Reporting format for details of investments by FIIs and NRIs in Perpetual Non-
Cumulative Preference Shares qualifying as Tier 1 Capital
(1) Name of the bank:
(2) Total issue size / amount raised (in ₹):
(3) Date of issue:
FIIs NRIs
Amount raised Amount raised
Number of
Number of FIIs
As a percentage of As a percentage of the
NRIs
(in ₹) (in ₹)
the total issue size total issue size
(4) It is certified that:
(i) the aggregate investment by all FIIs does not exceed 49 per cent of the
issue size and investment by no individual FII exceeds 10 per cent of the
issue size.
(ii) It is certified that the aggregate investment by all NRIs does not exceed 24
per cent of the issue size and investment by no individual NRI exceeds 5
per cent of the issue size.
Authorised Signatory
Date
Seal of the bank
70