भारतीय �रज़वर् बैंक
RESERVE BANK OF INDIA
RBI/DOR/2025-26/304
DOR.FIN.REC.No.223/20.06.056/2025-26 November 28, 2025
Reserve Bank of India (Rural Co-operative Banks – Credit Information
Reporting) Directions, 2025 (Updated as on July 01, 2026)
Table of Contents
Chapter-I Preliminary ...........................................................................................................3
A. Short Title and Commencement .................................................................................3
B. Applicability .................................................................................................................3
C. Definitions ....................................................................................................................3
Chapter-II Membership of CICs ...........................................................................................5
Chapter-III Credit Information Reporting and Dissemination ...........................................6
A. Data formats .................................................................................................................6
B. Reporting timelines and updation ..............................................................................6
C. Reporting guidelines ...................................................................................................7
D. Rectification of rejected data and review of Data Quality Index (DQI) ...................... 14
E. Correction of Credit Information Report ................................................................... 14
F. Use of credit information reports in credit appraisal ...............................................1 4
G. Display of information ...............................................................................................1 4
H. Applicability of other instructions issued by Department of Regulation ................ 16
Chapter-IV Technical Working Group ...............................................................................1 8
Chapter-V Customer Service and Grievance Redressal..................................................2 0
A. Strengthening of customer service ..........................................................................2 0
B. Framework for compensation to customers ............................................................2 1
C. Reserve Bank- Integrated Ombudsman Scheme, 2021 ............................................2 9
Chapter-VI Best Practices ................................................................................................. 30
Chapter-VII Repeal and Other Provisions ........................................................................3 1
A. Repeal and saving .....................................................................................................3 1
B. Application of other laws not barred ........................................................................3 1
C. Interpretations ............................................................................................................3 2
Annex I ................................................................................................................................3 3
Annex II ...............................................................................................................................6 4
Annex III ..............................................................................................................................6 5

Annex IV ..............................................................................................................................7 2
Annex V ..............................................................................................................................7 3
Annex VI……………………...………………………………………………………………..…….74
2

Introduction
These directions aim to establish a standardised framework for reporting and
dissemination of credit information; safeguard the confidentiality and security of
sensitive credit data; provide mechanisms for consumers to access their credit
information and grievance redressal on matters related to credit information reporting.
Accordingly, in exercise of the powers conferred by Section 11 of the Credit
Information Companies (Regulations) Act, 2005 (hereinafter referred to as CICRA),
the Reserve Bank of India (‘RBI’) being satisfied that it is necessary and expedient in
the public interest so to do, hereby issues the Directions hereinafter specified.
Chapter-I Preliminary
A. Short Title and Commencement
1. These Directions shall be called the Reserve Bank of India (Rural Co-operative
Banks – Credit Information Reporting) Directions, 2025.
2. These Directions shall come into force with immediate effect, unless otherwise
specified.
B. Applicability
3. These Directions shall be applicable to all Rural Co-operative Banks [hereinafter
collectively referred to as ‘Credit Institutions (CIs)’ and individually referred to as
‘Credit Institution (CI)’].
In this context, ‘Rural Co-operative Banks (RCBs)’ shall mean State Co-operative
Banks and Central Co-operative Banks, as defined in the National Bank for
Agriculture and Rural Development Act, 1981.
C. Definitions
4. In these Directions, unless the context otherwise requires, the terms herein shall
bear the meaning assigned to them below:
(1) ‘Company’ means a company defined under section 3 of the Companies Act,
1956 or corresponding section under the Companies Act, 2013.
(2) ‘Credit Information Companies (CICs)’ means companies that have been granted
a certificate of registration under section 5 of the CICRA. The CICs registered
with RBI under Section 5 of the CICRA are:
3

Sl. No. List of the CICs registered with RBI Date of issue of Certificate
of Registration
1. CRIF High Mark Credit Information November 25, 2010
Services Private Limited
2. Equifax Credit Information Services March 26, 2010
Private Limited
3. Experian Credit Information Company of February 17, 2010
India Private Limited
4. TransUnion CIBIL Limited March 05, 2012
(3) ‘Specified User (SU)’ shall have the same meaning assigned to it under clause
(l) of section 2 of CICRA and those notified under regulation 3 of the Credit
Information Companies Regulations, 2006, hereinafter referred to as “CIC
Regulations” (as amended from time to time).
5. Words or expressions used in these Directions and not defined herein, but
defined in CICRA, 2005, the Credit Information Companies Rules, 2006
(hereinafter referred to as ‘CIC Rules’) and the CIC Regulations, shall have the
same meanings as assigned to them in these Statute/ Rules/ Regulations. Any
other words or expressions used and not defined in these directions or aforesaid
Statute/ Rules/ Regulations and defined in Reserve Bank of India Act, 1934 or
Banking Regulation Act, 1949 or the Companies Act, 2013 shall have the same
meanings as assigned to them in these Acts.
4

Chapter-II Membership of CICs
6. A CI shall become member of all the CICs registered with the RBI.
7. One-time membership fee charged by the CICs from a CI to become their
members shall not exceed ₹10,000 each.
8. The annual fees charged by the CICs from a CI shall not exceed ₹5,000 each.
5

Chapter-III Credit Information Reporting and Dissemination
A. Data formats
9. The reporting of credit information by a CI to the CICs, shall be undertaken in
standardised data formats as prescribed in Annex I. These standardised data
formats would be a non-proprietary reporting format and shall be known as
‘Uniform Credit Reporting Format’ (UCRF) as denoted below:
(1) Form 1: Uniform Credit Reporting Format (Consumer) – for consumer segment.
(2) Form 2: Uniform Credit Reporting Format (Commercial) – for commercial
segment.
(3) Form 3: Uniform Credit Reporting Format (MFI) – for microfinance segment.
B. Reporting timelines and updation
10. A CI shall adhere to following guidelines on reporting timelines and updation:
(1) A CI shall submit data on credit information of its borrowers (including historical
data) to all CICs.
(2) 1A CI shall keep the credit information collected / maintained by it, updated
regularly on the following basis or at shorter intervals as mutually agreed upon
between the CI and CIC:
(i) A CI shall submit credit information as on 9th, 16th, 23rd and last day of the month
(hereinafter referred to as the reference dates) to CICs.
(ii) A CI shall submit the full file containing credit information records as on the last
day of the month to the CICs, by 5th day of the next month. Full file for this purpose
shall include all active accounts in the books of the CI and the accounts wherein
relationship between the borrower and the CI has ended since the last reporting
reference date.
(iii) For other submissions during the month, i.e., credit information records as on 9th,
16th and 23rd day of the month, a CI shall only furnish ‘incremental accounts’ to CICs.
The CI shall submit such credit information to CICs within four (4) calendar days from
the above-mentioned dates. Incremental accounts for this purpose shall include
1 Substituted with effect from July 01, 2026, vide Reserve Bank of India (Rural Co-operative Banks – Credit
Information Reporting) Amendment Directions, 2025 dated December 04, 2025.
6

details in respect of the following accounts:
(a) Accounts opened since the last reporting reference date;
(b) Accounts wherein the relationship between the borrower and the CI has ended
since the last reporting reference date;
(c) Accounts where there is a change from the last reporting reference date
because of any action/ transaction initiated by the borrower, and the same shall
include instances of repayment, change in outstanding balance, updates in
demographic details, related party, guarantors, ownership of account, account
type; and
(d) Accounts where interest and / or instalment of principal is overdue
Explanation: Accounts with change only in days past due from the last reporting
reference date shall also form part of the reporting.
(iv) An illustration on timelines for reporting is given in Annex-VI.
(v) CICs shall report on the DAKSH portal, a list of CIs which fail to adhere to the data
submission timelines to Department of Supervision, Reserve Bank of India, Central
Office at half yearly intervals (as on March 31 and September 30 each year) for
information and monitoring purposes.
(3) A CI shall ensure that the records submitted to CICs are updated regularly and
that no instances of repayment, including that of the last instalment, are left
unreported.
C. Reporting guidelines
11. The CICRA provides statutory backing for sharing of credit information by a CI
with CICs, subject to conditions stipulated therein. Therefore, with CICRA
coming into force, the requirement of a ‘consent clause’ has become redundant
and a CI need not insist upon obtaining such consent from borrowers.
12. A CI shall adhere to, inter alia, the following guidelines when reporting credit
information in the UCRF:
(1) In the commercial reporting segment, corporate identification number (CIN) and
credit history of the directors of the company (based on DIN number) shall be
reported.
7

(2) A CI shall report cases where compromise settlements have taken place and
the reason for such compromise settlement, in the prescribed data formats to CICs.
(3) With respect to part instalment overdue, a CI shall submit data as it is, while
qualitative information on what filters to apply based on amount and period would be
done by the SU and others who make use of the data.
(4) A CI shall use 'settled' status for denoting only specific situations where due to
financial inability to repay as per original terms and conditions, either a principal or an
interest waiver or both is provided to the customer.
Explanation: A CI needs to be aware of such a situation prior to extending fresh credit
to such customers. Cases of wrong debits or contested charges shall not be reported
as 'settled' but as 'disputed'.
(5) The information on Commercial Papers (CPs) issued by the companies shall be
reported on a fortnightly basis to the CICs by a CI which has been designated as the
Issuing and Payment Agent (IPA) for the particular CP issue. If there are multiple
IPAs for a single CP issue, each IPA to such issue shall report to the CICs the details
pertaining to the portion of the issue which is with them. This information shall be
reported in the commercial data format in the fields as mentioned in Annex II. The
IPA shall also report any default in the redemption of the relevant CP issue to the
CICs. In view of reporting requirement of IPA, it is clarified that an investing CI need
not report the information on CPs to the CICs.
(6) The information regarding Unhedged Foreign Currency Exposure (UFCE) of
individual borrowers shall be reported on a fortnightly basis to the CICs by the lending
CI (in the case of solo lenders) / consortium leader (in the case of consortium
arrangements) / largest lender (in the case of multiple lending arrangements).
(7) The cases admitted with National Company Law Tribunal (NCLT) / National
Company Law Appellate Tribunal (NCLAT) under the Insolvency and Bankruptcy
Code, 2016 shall be reported under the suit-filed cases in the Uniform Credit
Reporting Format, while reporting to the CICs.
(8) The reporting of Relationship Segment (RS) data by a CI to CICs is mandatory
for all accounts opened on or after July 01, 2018.
Explanations:
8

(a) The reporting of shareholders’ information under the ‘relationship’ field of the RS
in the Commercial data format should be done only for those shareholders who are
‘Beneficial Owners’ as defined under the Reserve Bank of India (Rural Co-operative
Banks – Know Your Customer) Directions, 2025, as amended from time to time.
(b) The RS details are important in establishing cross-linkages across the three
modules, viz., Consumer, Commercial and MFI, while providing comprehensive credit
information of a borrower to CIs by CICs.
(c) A timeline for reporting of the remainder legacy data would be reviewed by the
Technical Working Group (TWG) and the CIs would be advised in due course. CICs
shall furnish the list of CIs not adhering to the instructions on reporting of RS data to
the Department of Supervision (DoS), Central office, on a monthly basis.
(9) Guidelines for cross reporting, e.g., where individual is borrower and corporate
is coborrower, or vice versa, shall be clearly intimated by CICs. The formats have
fields to incorporate the data where consumer data will be reported in the consumer
data format and co-borrower will be reported in commercial data format.
(10) 2A CI shall report Central KYC (CKYC) number of its borrowers to CICs,
wherever the same is available with it or as and when CKYC number is made
available (in the case of fresh applicants for CKYC number).
13. Data of Self Help Group (SHG) members
(1) A CI financing SHGs shall report the SHG member level data to CICs in
the Uniform Credit Reporting Format (MFI) as mentioned in Annex I.
(2) The structure of the credit information in respect of SHG members to be collected
and reported by a CI to CICs is set out below:
Sl. No. Particulars Annex III
1 Information to be collected by a CI from individual SHG Table 1
members where the total amount of loan to be attributed to or to
be availed by the SHG member exceeds ₹30,000/-
2 Inserted with effect from July 01, 2026, vide Reserve Bank of India (Rural Co-operative Banks – Credit Information
Reporting) Amendment Directions, 2025 dated December 04, 2025.
9

2 Information to be collected by a CI from individual SHG Table 2
members where the total amount of loan to be attributed to or to
be availed by the SHG member is upto ₹30,000/-
3 Information on all individual SHG members to be reported by a Table 3
CI to CICs [included under the Uniform Credit Reporting (MFI)
format]
4 Information on individual SHG members to be collected by Table 4
banks at the time of opening of new Savings Bank Accounts of
the SHG
(3) The data tables are given in Annex III. As indicated above, a CI shall collect
information from all SHG members in Tables 1 and 2 and report it to the CICs
as set out in Table 3. The SHG member level data as mentioned in Table 3 shall
be subsumed in Form 3: Uniform Credit Reporting format (MFI) of Annex I for
reporting to CICs. The tables have been designed based on the following
considerations:
(i) Some of the information (Item number 17 of Tables 1 and 2) is related to
the existing exposures of the SHG members including that of the SHG
groups with whom they might have been previously associated. This is
intended to help CIs make informed credit decisions with regard to the SHG
members. This information may be collected by CIs directly from the CICs
based on lead information provided by the SHG members. Hence, there
would be no need for CIs to include this information in the dataset reported
to the CICs as per Table 3.
(ii) The collection and reporting of credit information in respect of SHG
members will be restricted to the members of those SHGs that take loans
exceeding ₹1,00,000/-. However, the members of all SHGs, regardless of
the amount of group loan, shall report the non-credit information to CIs
through the SHG Group at the time when the SHG approaches the CI for a
loan.
(iii) The non-credit information requirements have been designed both from the
perspective of identification of the individual borrowers and supplementing
the information requirements of banks, regulatory and government
development agencies for the purpose of evaluating the flow of credit to
10

various sub-segments of the SHG members and designing suitable credit
penetration strategies keeping in view the socio-economic profile of the sub-
segments. The information shall be reported by CIs to the CICs in a manner
that allows the CICs to identify all members associated with a particular SHG
and a particular person to be identified with all SHGs with whom he/she
is/was associated.
(4) A CI shall put in place necessary systems and procedures including making
necessary changes to their system software for collections of the relevant
information from the SHG members and reporting the required information to the
CICs.
(i) A CI shall have the option to collect and report the SHG member level data
either themselves or by outsourcing it to other entities. However, it shall
follow all general instructions on outsourcing set out in the Reserve Bank of
India (Rural Co-operative Banks – Managing Risks in Outsourcing)
Directions, 2025, as amended from time to time, to the extent applicable and
shall continue to be responsible for the correctness of the data submitted
by the outsourced agencies to the CICs. A CI must put in place appropriate
controls to ensure the correctness of the data submitted by the entities to
which it is outsourced.
(ii) A CI shall monitor the NPA levels in the SHG segment on an ongoing basis
and collect detailed information from SHG members availing loans
exceeding a lower threshold of ₹ 20,000, if the Gross NPA in the SHG
segment exceeds 10% or is higher than the gross NPA of the CI by 5
percentage points.
(iii) Non-adherence to the instructions by a CI shall result in exclusion of non-
compliant SHG loan accounts from the loan portfolios eligible to be
reckoned for the purpose of complying with the priority sector lending (PSL)
targets.
(5) Other operational instructions
(i) At this stage, it is envisaged to capture details of only the credit facilities
availed by the SHG members from the CIs. Therefore, any information
relating to inter-loaning among the SHG members out of their own savings
11

will not be covered. However, in order to know the overall indebtedness of
a SHG member it may be necessary to know their exposures to the SHGs
with regard to inter-loaning as well. As part of the continued endeavour to
improve the quality of information of a SHG member, the need for capturing
the inter-loaning would be reviewed in due course.
(ii) Given significant challenges in monitoring and reporting the performance of
individual loans availed by the SHG members out of the amounts lent by
CIs to the SHGs, it is not envisaged to extend the credit reporting system to
the monitoring of repayment and recovery of these loans. However, this
would be considered in due course.
(iii) With a view to building up the adequate information base of the potential
SHG member borrowers and expediting the process of collection and
reporting of KYC compliant information relating to the members of the SHGs
when the SHGs are credit- linked, banks are encouraged to offer Small
Accounts / Basic Savings Bank Deposit Account to the SHG members when
an SHG approaches them for opening a Savings Account. In cases where
the SHG members agree to open such accounts, the information in Table 4
may be collected and kept on record to be used at the time when the SHG
approaches the bank for a loan. However, it must not be made a pre-
condition for opening the Savings Account of the SHG.
(iv) None of the data requirements specified in paragraph 13 should be made a
pre- condition for extending loans to the SHGs, though CIs must make
sincere efforts to comply with these requirements.
(v) A CI may encourage the SHGs to keep written records of loans distributed
to their members out of the loan availed including the digitisation scheme
for SHGs of NABARD, where applicable, and may consider introducing
appropriate incentives in this regard.
(vi) A CI shall develop appropriate policies to deal with applications for credit
facilities from members of SHGs / SHGs on whom default is reported by the
CICs. Care needs to be taken that the SHGs / individual members are not
denied loans merely because of such defaults and CIs should appropriately
evaluate the credit history of the members themselves and take into account
12

the economic viability of their activities and the Groups’ capacity to service
the loan proposed to be taken by considering their loan applications.
(vii) The credit information relating to individual SHG members shall be
collected, reported, and disseminated as per the provisions of the CICRA
and the extant RBI directions on credit information reporting.
14. Reporting mechanism after cancellation of licence
(1) In case of cancellation of licence of a CI by RBI, either through voluntary
submission or supervisory action, CICs shall insert a suitable disclaimer in the
records of the CI’s borrowers to reflect non-updatability of the record due to
closure of the CI in their CIR.
(2) In order to address the challenges in updating credit information of borrowers of
CI whose licence has been cancelled, CICs and CIs shall implement a credit
information reporting mechanism subsequent to cancellation of licence as under
(i) A CI, whose licence has been cancelled by RBI shall be categorised ‘Credit
Institution’ under Section 2(f)(vii) of CICRA.
(ii) Such a CI shall continue to report credit information of the borrowers on-
boarded and reported to CICs prior to cancellation of their licence to all the
four CICs till the loan lifecycle is completed or the credit institution is wound
up, whichever is earlier.
(iii) Such a CI shall have access to Credit Information Reports pertaining to only
those borrowers which were onboarded and reported to CICs before the
cancellation of their license.
(iv) CICs shall not charge the annual and membership fees from such a CI.
(v) These instructions shall also be applicable to those entities whose licence
has been cancelled by the Reserve Bank of India prior to issuance of these
instructions.
(vi) All other instructions regarding credit information reporting by CIs to CICs
shall remain unchanged.
13

D. Rectification of rejected data and review of Data Quality Index (DQI)
15. 3A CI shall rectify the rejected data shared by CICs and re-submit the same to
CICs before / along with submission of data of subsequent reporting reference
date.
16. CICs shall prepare and provide Data Quality Index (DQI) for Consumer,
Commercial and Microfinance segments, as provided in Reserve Bank of India
(Credit Information Companies) Directions, 2025, for assessing the quality of
data submissions by CIs to CICs and improving the same over a period of time.
17. A CI shall undertake half yearly review of the DQI for all segments to improve
the quality of the data being submitted to CICs. A report consisting of issues
identified and corrective steps taken shall be placed before its top management
by each CI for review within two months from the end of that half-year.
E. Correction of Credit Information Report
18. A CI shall abide by the time periods stipulated under CICRA and the Rules and
Regulations framed thereunder in respect of updation, alteration of credit
information, resolving disputes, etc. Procedure prescribed under Rules 20 and
21 of the CIC Rules, 2006 in this regard shall be adhered to. Deviations from
stipulated time limits shall be monitored and commented upon in the periodical
reports/reviews put up to the Board / Committee of Board on customer service.
19. A CI shall have arrangements in place to receive customer requests for
rectification of data in CIRs. In order to maintain high data quality, all
erroneous data shall be corrected at the source by the CI that originally
submitted the data.
F. Use of credit information reports in credit appraisal
20. A CI shall include in their loan policies / credit appraisal processes, suitable
provisions for obtaining CIRs from one or more CICs so that the credit decisions
are based on credit information available in the system.
G. Display of information
21. A CI which is a secured creditor as per the Securitisation and Reconstruction of
3 Substituted with effect from July 01, 2026, vide Reserve Bank of India (Rural Co-operative Banks – Credit
Information Reporting) Amendment Directions, 2025 dated December 04, 2025.
14

Financial Assets and Enforcement of Security Interest (SARFAESI) Act, 2002,
shall display, on its website, information in respect of the borrowers whose
secured assets have been taken into possession by the CIs under the
SARFAESI Act, 2002 as per the format given in Annex IV. The list consisting of
this information shall be updated on monthly basis.
(1) The following clarifications in this regard need to be noted by the CIs:
(i) Secured assets possessed by a CI under the SARFAESI Act, 2002 on or
after September 25, 2023 should be disclosed on its website.
(ii) The assets possessed and already sold under SARFAESI Act, 2002 need
not be displayed on the website.
(iii) The secured assets possessed by a CI shall be removed from the website
in the event of the following circumstances:
(a) when the secured asset is sold; or
(b) when the secured creditor receives the outstanding amount (which
includes the principal, interest and any other dues payable by the
borrower to the secured creditor) or after payment of the agreed
settlement amount from the borrower.
(iv) The SARFAESI Act, 2002 does not classify possession as symbolic or
physical. Accordingly, a CI shall display information on secured assets
possessed under Section 13 (4) of the SARFAESI Act, 2002. This includes
the display of both symbolically and physically possessed assets on the
website.
(v) Both movable and immovable secured assets possessed under Section
13 (4) of the SARFAESI Act, 2002, on which the information is already
published in the newspapers in terms of Rule 3 (1) or Rule 6 (2) of the
Security (Enforcement) Rules of 2002 in case of movable property, and
Rule 8 (2) ibid in case of immovable property, shall be displayed on the
website of a CI.
(vi) The ‘outstanding amount’ to be displayed on the website of a CI shall be
as per definition provided under Section 13 (9) (b) of the SARFAESI Act,
2002 i.e. it shall include principal, interest and any other dues payable by
15

the borrower to the secured creditor in respect of secured asset as per the
books of account of the secured creditor.
(vii) The ‘outstanding balance’, ‘asset classification’ and ‘date of asset
classification’ of the secured assets possessed under Section 13 (4) of the
SARFAESI Act, 2002, shall be as per the information published in the
newspapers in terms of Rule 3 (1) or Rule 6 (2) of the Security
(Enforcement) Rules of 2002 in case of movable property, and Rule 8 (2)
in case of immovable property.
(viii) The ‘State’ column of the Annex IV corresponds to that of the branch, as
the borrower's address column inherently captures the State to which the
borrower belongs.
(ix) Details in the ‘Guarantor Name (wherever applicable)’ column of the
Annex IV should be limited to guarantors who have created a security
interest in favour of the CI and whose assets are possessed under the Act.
(x) The monthly updates mentioned above specifically relate to the inclusion
of new secured assets possessed by a CI, and the removal of the secured
assets that have been sold or resolved by the CI.
(xi) While the lead lender as per the consortium agreement may initiate
SARFAESI proceedings, all consortium members are required to
individually display on their website the details of assets taken into
possession, including outstanding amount and other details as per the
pari-passu charge and consortium agreement ensuring transparency.
H. Applicability of other instructions issued by Department of Regulation
22. A CI shall ensure compliance with the applicable instructions on credit
information reporting, as prescribed in the following Directions/ Circulars:
(1) Reserve Bank of India (Rural Co-operative Banks – Debit Cards: Issuance and
Conduct) Directions, 2025, as amended from time to time.
(2) Reserve Bank of India (Rural Co-operative Banks – Classification, Valuation and
Operation of Investment Portfolio) Directions, 2025, as amended from time to
time.
(3) Reserve Bank of India (Rural Co-operative Banks – Credit Facilities) Directions,
16

2025
(4) Reserve Bank of India (Rural Co-operative Banks – Transfer and Distribution of
Credit Risk) Directions, 2025
(5) Reserve Bank of India (Rural Co-operative Banks – Undertaking of Financial
Services) Directions, 2025
17

Chapter-IV Technical Working Group
A. Instructions on Technical Working Group
23. In order to institutionalize a continuing mechanism for reviewing and making
changes where necessary in the data formats, a Technical Working Group
(TWG) shall be formed. The TWG shall carry out the following functions:
(1) Review the data reporting formats, at least once a year, and make
recommendations, if any, to the Reserve Bank in this regard.
(2) Frame rules on data fields for all data reporting formats, viz., consumer,
commercial, micro finance (MFI) segments. The data formats after finalisation
by the Group will be submitted to RBI for approval.
(3) Any other matter relating to collection and dissemination of credit
information as the Reserve Bank may assign from time to time.
24. The TWG shall comprise of representatives from Public Sector Banks, Private
Sector Banks, Foreign Banks, Primary (Urban) Cooperative Banks (UCBs),
Regional Rural Banks (RRBs), All India Notified Financial Institutions (AIFIs),
Non-Banking Financial Companies (NBFCs), Housing Finance Companies
(HFCs), Asset Reconstruction Companies (ARCs) India Banks’ Association
(IBA), Micro Finance Institutions Network (MFIN), Sa-Dhan and CICs.
25. Meetings of the TWG shall be held at least once in a calendar year. The four
CICs shall act as convenor of the TWG by rotation (for each calendar year), in
alphabetical order of the name.
B. Standing Sub-Group of TWG
26. A Standing Sub-Group of TWG shall be constituted to function as an advisory
and collaborative body to offer expert insights and make recommendations on
technical aspects of credit information reporting. Its purpose would be to support
in-depth discussions regarding challenges encountered by CIs and CICs in
relation to credit information reporting. This includes necessary modifications,
including changes in the IT systems, that may be required in the data reporting
formats. The Sub-Group shall work to support the broader TWG to ensure a
holistic approach to strengthening the credit information reporting ecosystem.
18

27. The Sub-Group of TWG would consist of representatives from Public-Sector
Banks, Private Sector Banks, Foreign Banks, Small Finance Banks, Regional
Rural Banks, Urban Cooperative Banks, Non-Banking Financial Companies,
Asset Reconstruction Companies, Self-Regulating Organizations (SROs), viz.,
MFIN and Sa-Dhan, and all CICs.
28. Members of the Sub-Group shall be selected by the convenor with prior
approval of the Reserve Bank. To enhance the overall expertise and
effectiveness of the discussions, members of the Sub-Group shall nominate
subject matter experts to its meetings.
29. The Sub-Group of TWG shall meet at least on a half yearly basis to discuss
credit information reporting issues and seek potential resolutions.
30. To ensure effective coordination, the CIC that assumes the role of TWG
convenor for a specific year shall also act as convenor of the Sub-Group in that
particular calendar year.
31. To ensure proper preparation and informed discussions, the convenor shall
send the meeting agenda and notes at least fifteen (15) days before the
scheduled meeting. Additionally, if members desire to introduce a new issue or
item for discussion, they should send a note outlining the points of discussion
and proposed solutions to the convenor.
32. Action points emanating from discussions of the Sub-Group shall contain
specific timelines required for their implementation by CICs and CIs.
33. Recommendations of the Sub-Group of TWG shall be forwarded to the
Department of Regulation, Central Office, Reserve Bank of India for perusal. If
required, RBI may seek TWG’s opinion on these recommendations.
19

Chapter-V Customer Service and Grievance Redressal
A. Strengthening of customer service
34. In order to strengthen and improve the efficacy of the grievance redress
mechanism and customer service provided by the CIs, the following measures
shall be put in place by a CI:
(1) Updation of credit information with CICs
(i) A CI shall send alerts through SMS / email to customers while submitting
information to CICs regarding default / days past due (DPD) in existing
credit facilities, wherever the mobile number/email ID details are available.
(ii) To enable sending of alerts through SMS / email, the Uniform Credit
Reporting Format for reporting credit information by a CI to CICs has been
modified as detailed in Annex V.
(iii) A CI shall organize special awareness campaigns to sensitise its
customers about benefits of submission of their mobile numbers / email
IDs.
(2) Setting up of nodal points / officials
(i) A CI shall have a dedicated nodal point / official of contact for CICs for
redress of customer grievances. Details of the nodal point / official along
with email ID and telephone / mobile number shall be furnished by the CI to
CICs.
(ii) A CI shall inform CICs of any changes in the nodal points / official within
five calendar days of such a change.
(3) Reasons for rejection of requests for data correction
(i) A CI shall inform the customers the reasons for the rejection of their request
for data correction, if any, to enable such customers to better understand
the issues in the CIR.
(ii) A CI shall use the list of reasons for rejection of requests circulated by CICs,
while communicating the rejections of the request for data correction made
by customers / CICs during the grievance redress process.
(4) Root Cause Analysis of complaints
20

(i) A CI shall undertake Root Cause Analysis (RCA) of the customer
grievances at least on a half yearly basis. CIs shall also use, inter alia,
information on data rejected by the CICs and DQI provided by CICs as
sources of information for carrying out RCA.
(ii) The RCA shall be reviewed by the top management at least on an annual
basis.
B. Framework for compensation to customers
35. A CI shall implement the following compensation mechanism for delayed
updation/ rectification of credit information:
(1) Complainants shall be entitled to a compensation of ₹100 per calendar day in
case their complaint is not resolved within a period of thirty calendar days from the
date of the initial filing of the complaint by the complainant with a CI / CIC.
Explanation:
(i) Section 21 (3) of CICRA, 2005 provides that a complainant may request a
CIC or CI to update the credit information by making an appropriate
correction, addition or otherwise, and on such request the CI or CIC shall
take steps to update the credit information within 30 days after being
requested to do so.
(ii) Rule 20 (3) (c) of CIC Rules, 2006 provides that the CI shall forward the
corrected particulars of the credit information to the CIC or complainant
within a period of 21 days from the date when the CI was informed of the
inaccuracy in the credit information.
(iii) The combined reading of Section 21(3) of CICRA, 2005 and Rule 20 (3)
(c) of CIC Rules, 2006 provide the CI and the CIC, collectively, an overall
limit of thirty (30) days to resolve/ dispose of the complaint. In effect, this
would mean that a CI would get 21 days and CICs would effectively get
the remainder of nine days for complete resolution of the complaint.
(2) A CI shall pay compensation to the complainant if it has failed to send updated
credit information to the CICs by making an appropriate correction or
addition or otherwise within 21 calendar days of being informed by the
complainant or a CIC.
21

(3) The complainant shall be advised by the CI / CIC of the action taken on the
complaint in all cases, including the cases where the complaint has been
rejected. In cases of rejection, the reasons for rejection shall also be provided
by CI and CIC.
(4) Compensation to be provided by the CICs / CIs to the complainant (for delayed
resolution beyond 30 calendar days of filing the complaint) shall be apportioned
among the CIs / CICs concerned proportionately.
Illustrations:
(i) Complaints registered with CIC by the complainant
CIs have maximum 21 days’ time and CICs have the remaining period, within the
overall time period of 30 days from the date of receipt of the complaint for its
resolution. Compensation payable by the CICs/ CIs shall be calculated under
various scenarios as illustrated below:
Case 1
• Complaint registered with a CIC on January 1, 2022.
• The CIC seeks confirmation from the CI (for e.g. Bank A) on January 12, 2022.
• Bank A provides confirmation to the CIC on February 2, 2022 (21st day would
be February 2, 2022) – no delay by Bank A.
• The CIC resolves and provides rectified CIR to the complainant on February
3, 2022.
• Compensation of ₹300/- shall be provided by the CIC to the complainant for
delay of three (3) days beyond the permissible period of 30 days (i.e. in this case
by January 31, 2022).
Case 2
• Complaint registered with a CIC on January 1, 2022.
• The CIC seeks confirmation from Bank A on January 5, 2022.
• Bank A provides confirmation to the CIC on January 26, 2022 (i.e. within 21
days) – no delay by Bank A.
22

• The CIC resolves and provides rectified CIR to the complainant on February 3,
2022.
• Compensation of ₹300/- shall be provided by the CIC to the complainant for
delay of three (3) days beyond the permissible period of 30 days (i.e. in this case
by January 31, 2022).
Case 3
• Complaint registered with a CIC on January 1, 2022
• The CIC seeks confirmation from Bank A on January 5, 2022.
• Bank A provides confirmation to the CIC on January 28, 2022 (21st day would
be January 26, 2022) – 2 days delay by Bank A
• If CIC resolves and provides rectified CIR to the complainant on February 2,
2022 - Compensation of ₹200/- shall be provided by the Bank A to the complainant
for a delay of two (2) days beyond the permissible period of 30 days (i.e. in this
case by January 31, 2022).
• If CIC resolves and provides rectified CIR to the complainant on February 3,
2022 – Total compensation of ₹300/- (₹200/- by Bank A and ₹100/- by CIC) shall
be provided to the complainant for delay of three (3) days beyond the permissible
period of 30 days (i.e. in this case by January 31, 2022).
Case 4
• Complaint registered with a CIC on January 1, 2022
• The CIC seeks confirmation from Bank A, Bank B, Bank C, Bank D, Bank
E on January 5, 2022 – i.e. the CIC has taken 4 days to seek confirmation.
• For Bank A, B, C, D and E – (21st day would be January 26, 2022)
• If Bank A provides confirmation to CIC on January 26, 2022 – No delay
• If Bank B provides confirmation to CIC on January 31, 2022 – 5 days delay
32
• If Bank C provides confirmation to CIC on February 2, 2022 – 7 days delay days
• If Bank D provides confirmation to CIC on February 4, 2022 – 9 days delay
• If Bank E provides confirmation to CIC on February 6, 2022 – 11 days delay
23

• Therefore, total delay in resolution of complaint is as follows:
• If the CIC resolves and provides rectified CIR to the complainant on
February 6, 2022 – Total compensation of ₹600 shall be provided to the
complainant, on a weighted average basis, as under, for a delay of 6 days
beyond the permissible period of 30 days (i.e. in this case by January 31,
2022):
Explanation: The delay of six days shall be apportioned by the CIs/CICs on
weighted average of the extent of delay by each CIs/CICs. In the above case,
the overall delay is 6 days and therefore the complainant shall be entitled for
total compensation of ₹600. This needs to be apportioned between all the
defaulting banks (in this case Bank B, C, D and E). Cumulatively, the delay of
all the defaulting banks put together is 32 days (5+7+9+11 days). Therefore,
the compensation amount of ₹600 shall be apportioned on weighted average
of the delay by each CIs in relation to the overall delay of 32 days in this case.
 Bank A = No compensation
 Bank B = (5*600)/32 = ₹93.75
 Bank C= (7*600)/32 = ₹131.25
 Bank D = (9*600)/32 = ₹168.75
 Bank E = (11*600)/32 = ₹206.25
 CIC = No compensation
• If the CIC resolves and provides rectified CIR to the complainant on
February 11, 2022, total days taken by CIC would be 9 days (i.e. 4+ 5 days).
Total compensation of ₹1100 shall be provided to the complainant, on a
weighted average basis, as under, for delay of 11 days beyond the permissible
period of 30 days (i.e. in this case by January 31, 2022):
 Bank A = No compensation
 Bank B = (5*1100)/32 = ₹171.88
 Bank C = (7*1100)/32 = ₹240.62
24

 Bank D = (9*1100)/32 = ₹309.38
 Bank E = (11*1100)/32 = ₹378.12
 CIC = No compensation (as CIC has taken overall 9 days)
• If the CIC resolves and provides rectified CIR to the complainant on
February 15, 2022. CIC has taken 13 days (i.e. 4 days + 9 days) to provide
a final rectified CIR. Total compensation of ₹1500 shall be provided to the
complainant, on a weighted average basis as under, for the delay of 15 days
beyond the permissible period of 30 days (i.e. in this case by January 31,
2022):
 Bank A = No compensation
 Bank B = (5*1500)/36 = ₹208.34
 Bank C = (7*1500)/36 = ₹291.66
 Bank D = (9*1500)/36 = ₹375.00 32 + 4 = 36
 Bank E = (11*1500)/36 = ₹458.34 days
 CIC = (4*1500)/36 = ₹166.66
Case 5
• Complaint registered with a CIC on January 1, 2022
• The CIC seeks confirmation from Bank A on January 5, 2022
• Bank A provides confirmation to the CIC on January 28, 2022 (21st day would be
January 26, 2022) – 2 days delay
• If, CIC resolves and provides rectified CIR to Bank A on January 31, 2022 (i.e.
resolution done within 30 days of receiving the complaint) - No case for
Compensation.
However, the CI would be liable for penal action as deemed fit by the Reserve
Bank of India as per provisions of CICRA, 2005 and Rules and Regulations farmed
thereunder.
25

(ii) Complaints registered with CIs by the complainant
Case 6
• Complaint registered with a CI (for e.g. Bank A) on January 1, 2022
• Bank A provides rectified details to CIC on January 22, 2022 (21st day would be
January 22, 2022) – no delay by Bank A.
• If the CIC resolves and provides rectified CIR to Bank A on January 31, 2022 and
Bank A provides the rectified CIR to the complainant on January 31, 2022 – No
case for compensation.
• If the CIC resolves and provides rectified CIR to Bank A on January 31, 2022 and
Bank A provides the rectified CIR to the complainant on February 1, 2022 – A
compensation of ₹100 shall be provided by the Bank A to the complainant for delay
of 1 days beyond the permissible period of 30 days (i.e. in this case by January
31, 2022).
• If the CIC resolves and provides rectified CIR to Bank A on February 1, 2022 and
Bank A provides the rectified CIR to the complainant on February 1, 2022 - A
compensation of ₹100 shall be provided by the CIC to the complainant for delay of
1 day beyond the permissible period of 30 days (i.e. in this case by January 31,
2022).
• If the CIC resolves and provides rectified CIR to Bank A on February 1, 2022 and
Bank A provides the rectified CIR to the complainant on February 2, 2022 - Total
compensation of ₹200 shall be provided [₹100 by the CIC and ₹100 by Bank A] to
the complainant for delay of 2 day beyond the permissible period of 30 days (i.e.
in this case by January 31, 2022).
Note: Where the grievance/ complaint involves inaccurate credit information of
more than one (1) CI, the complaint shall be registered by the customer with the
concerned CIC. The CIC shall coordinate with all CIs concerned, and furnish to
the customer a comprehensive resolution of grievance.
Case 7
• Complaint registered with a CI (for e.g. Bank A) on January 1, 2022
26

• Bank A resolves and provides rectified details to the CIC on January 25, 2022
(21st day would be January 22, 2022) – 3 days delay by Bank A.
• If the CIC resolves and provides rectified CIR to Bank A on January 31, 2022 and
Bank A provides rectified CIR to complainant on January 31, 2022 - No case for
Compensation.
• If the CIC resolves and provides rectified CIR to Bank A on February 3, 2022 (i.e.
the CIC takes 9 days after being informed by Bank A) and Bank A provides rectified
CIR to the complainant on February 3, 2022 – A compensation of ₹300 shall be
provided by Bank A to the complainant for delay of 3 days beyond the permissible
period of 30 days (i.e. in this case by January 31, 2022).
• If the CIC resolves and provides rectified CIR to Bank A on February 3, 2022 and
Bank A provides rectified CIR to the complainant on February 4, 2022 – A
compensation of ₹400 shall be provided by Bank A to the complainant for delay of
4 days beyond the permissible period of 30 days (i.e. in this case by January 31,
2022).
• If the CIC resolves and provides rectified CIR to Bank A on February 4, 2022 and
Bank A provides rectified CIR to the complainant on February 4, 2022 – Total
compensation of ₹400 [₹100 by the CIC and ₹300 by Bank A] shall be provided to
the complainant for delay of 4 days beyond the permissible period of 30 days (i.e.
in this case by January 31, 2022).
• If the CIC resolves and provides rectified CIR to Bank A on February 4, 2022 and
Bank A provides rectified CIR to the complainant on February 5, 2022 – Total
compensation of ₹500 [₹100 by CIC and ₹400 by Bank A] shall be provided to the
complainant for delay of 5 days beyond the permissible period of 30 days (i.e. in this
case by January 31, 2022).
(5) Where the grievance / complaint involves inaccurate credit information provided
by more than one CI, the complaint shall be registered by the complainant with
the concerned CIC. The CIC shall coordinate with all the CIs concerned and
furnish the complainant with a comprehensive resolution of the grievance.
(6) Where the complaint has been received and registered by a CI and there has
been a delay in the resolution of the complaint, the CI shall inform the concerned
27

CIC(s) and the complainant after the final resolution, regarding total delay (in
calendar days) and the amount of compensation to be paid by the CI and/ or
CIC(s).
(7) The date of the resolution of the grievance shall be the date when the rectified
CIR has been sent by the CIC or CI to the postal address or email ID provided
by the complainant.
(8) A CI shall make appropriate provision in their complaint submission format (both
online and offline) for enabling the complainant to submit the contact details,
email ID, and bank account details/ Unified Payment Interface (UPI) ID for
crediting the compensation amount. The onus of providing accurate details will
lie with the complainant and the CIs will not be held responsible for any incorrect
information provided by the complainant.
(9) The compensation amount shall be credited to the bank account of the
complainant within five working days of the resolution of the complaint.
(10) The complainant can approach RBI Ombudsman, under the Reserve Bank -
Integrated Ombudsman Scheme, 2021, in case of wrongful denial of
compensation by CIs or CICs.
(11) In case of wrongful denial of compensation by a CI which is yet to be covered
under the Reserve Bank - Integrated Ombudsman Scheme, 2021, the
complainant can approach Consumer Education and Protection Cell (CEPC)
functioning from Regional Offices (ROs) of RBI.
(12) The compensation framework shall not be applicable in the following cases:
(i) disputes for which remedy has been provided under Section 18 of CICRA,
2005. The Section 18 of CICRA, 2005 provides that for disputes arising
amongst, CICs, CIs, borrowers, and clients on matters relating to the
business of credit information and for which no remedy has been provided
under CICRA, 2005, such disputes shall be settled by conciliation or
arbitration as provided in the Arbitration and Conciliation Act, 1996.
(ii) complaints / references relating to (a) internal administration, (b) human
resources, (c) pay and emoluments of staff, and (d) references in the nature
of suggestions and commercial decisions of the CI.
28

(iii) complaints that have been decided by or are already pending in other fora
such as Consumer Disputes Redressal Commission, Courts, Tribunals, etc.
C. Reserve Bank- Integrated Ombudsman Scheme, 2021
36. A CI covered under the Reserve Bank – Integrated Ombudsman Scheme, 2021
(RBIOS, 2021) shall comply with the directions provided under the said
Scheme.
29

Chapter-VI Best Practices
37. A CI shall take into account the best practices as detailed below, while
formulating or reviewing its policies and procedures under the CICRA with the
approval of their Board of Directors:
(1) Instances of non-updation of repayment information could be avoided by
centralising the issue of no objection certificates (NOCs) and providing
information to CICs.
(2) Customer grievance redressal should be given top priority especially in
respect of complaints relating to updation / alteration of credit information.
(3) Grievance redressal in respect of credit information should be integrated
with the existing systems for grievance redressal. Aspects relating to
customer grievances pertaining to credit information may also be an integral
part of customer service policy of a CI.
(4) A CI shall give full customer information to the CICs. For instance,
identifier information like PAN number, Voters ID Card number, etc. is not
provided by CIs for all records.
(5) First time borrowers’ loan applications should not be rejected just
because they have no credit history.
(6) With a view to decreasing court cases involving CIs and CICs, complaints
need to be addressed by them on an urgent basis. A CI shall have a
structured process of complaint redressal including the setting up of
Consumer Protection Committee of the Board.
30

Chapter-VII Repeal and Other Provisions
A. Repeal and saving
38. With the issue of these Directions, the existing Directions, instructions, and
guidelines relating to credit information reporting for Rural Co-operative Banks
stand repealed, as communicated vide circular DOR.RRC.REC.302/33-01-
010/2025-26 dated November 28, 2025. The Directions, instructions and
guidelines repealed prior to the issuance of these Directions shall continue to
remain repealed.
39. Notwithstanding such repeal, any action taken or purported to have been taken,
or initiated under the repealed Directions, instructions, or guidelines shall
continue to be governed by the provisions thereof. All approvals or
acknowledgments granted under these repealed lists shall be deemed as
governed by these Directions. Further, the repeal of these directions,
instructions, or guidelines shall not in any way prejudicially affect:
i. any right, obligation or liability acquired, accrued, or incurred thereunder;
ii. any, penalty, forfeiture, or punishment incurred in respect of any
contravention committed thereunder;
iii. any investigation, legal proceeding, or remedy in respect of any such right,
privilege, obligation, liability, penalty, forfeiture, or punishment as aforesaid;
and any such investigation, legal proceedings or remedy may be instituted,
continued, or enforced and any such penalty, forfeiture or punishment may
be imposed as if those directions, instructions, or guidelines had not been
repealed.
B. Application of other laws not barred
40. The provisions of these Directions shall be in addition to, and not in derogation
of the provisions of any other laws, rules, regulations, or directions, for the time
being in force.
31

C. Interpretations
41. For the purpose of giving effect to the provisions of these Directions or in order
to remove any difficulties in the application or interpretation of the provisions of
these Directions, the RBI may, if it considers necessary, issue necessary
clarifications in respect of any matter covered herein and the interpretation of
any provision of these Directions given by the RBI shall be final and binding.
(J P Sharma)
Chief General Manager
32

Annex I
Uniform Credit Reporting Format
Form 1: Uniform Credit Reporting Format (Consumer)
Segments Fields
Header Reporting Reporting Member Cycle Date Reporting Authentication Member Data
Member / / Processor Short Identification Reported Password Method
Processor Name and
User ID Certified
Name Consumer Name Date of Birth Gender
ID ID Type ID Number Issue Date Expiration Date
Telephone Telephone Number Telephone Extension Telephone Type
Email E-Mail ID
Address Consumer Address State Code PIN Address Category Residence Code
Code
Account Current/New Current/New Current / New Account Type Ownership Date Opened/ Date of Last
Reporting Member Short Account Indicator Disbursed Payment
Member Name Number
Code
Date Closed Date Reported and High Credit/ Current Amount Number of Days Old Reporting
Certified Sanctioned Balance Overdue Past Due Member Code
Amount
Old Member Old Account Old Account Old Suit Filed/ Wilful Credit Facility Asset
Short Name Number Type Ownership Default Status Classification
Indicator
Value of Type of Collateral Credit Limit Cash Limit Rate of Interest Repayment EMI Amount
Collateral Tenure
Written-off Written-off Settlement Payment Actual Occupation Code Income
Amount Amount Amount Frequency Payment
(Total) (Principal) Amount
Net/Gross Income Monthly/Annual
Indicator Income Indicator
Note: The reporting fields of the Consumer reporting format to incorporate among
others the following catalogue values:
Field Name
Remarks
Account Type Inclusion of additional catalogue values:
• Short term personal loan
• Priority Sector – Gold loan
• Temporary Overdraft (account should be considered
closed by CICs when it is not reported in subsequent
months by CIs in view
of credit balance in the said account)
33

Credit Facility Status Inclusion of additional catalogue values:
• Restructured due to COVID-19
• Post Write Off Closed
• Restructured and Closed
• Auctioned and Settled
• Repossessed and Settled
• Guarantee Invoked
Ownership Indicator Inclusion of additional catalogue value:
• Deceased
Type of Collateral Inclusion of additional catalogue value:
• Multiple Securities and
Others
ID Type Inclusion of additional catalogue values:
• NREGA card number
• CKYC
Payment frequency Inclusion of additional catalogue values:
• Bullet payment
• Daily
• Half yearly
• Yearly
• On Demand
Address Category Inclusion of additional catalogue value:
Mortgage Property address
High Credit/ The reporting field to be mandatory
Sanctioned Amount
34

Form 2: Uniform Credit Reporting Format (Commercial)
Segments Fields
Header Member ID Previous Date of Creation Reporting / Information Type Filler
Member ID & Certification of Cycle Date
Input File
Borrower Member Previous Borrower s Name Borrower Short Company Date of
Branch Code Member Name Registration Incorporation
Branch Code Number
PAN CIN TIN Service Tax Udhyam Borrower s Business
number Registration Legal Category
Number Constitution
Business / Industry Class of Class of Class of Activity 3 SIC Code Sales Figure Financial Year
Type Activity 1 Activity 2
Number of Employees Credit Rating Assessment Credit Rating As Credit Rating Filler
Agency On Expiry Date
/ Authority
Address Borrower Borrower Address Address Address City/Town District
Office Office Line 1 Line 2 Line 3
Location DUNS
Type Number
State/Union Territory Pin Code Country Mobile Telephone Area Telephone Fax Area Code
Number(s) Code Number(s)
E-mail ID Filler
Relationship Related Type Relationship Business Business Business / Individual Name Prefix
Relationship DUNS Entity Name Category Industry
Number Type
Full Name Gender Company Date of Date of Birth PAN Voter ID
Registration Incorporation
Number
Passport Number Driving UID Ration Card No CIN DIN TIN
License ID
Service Tax number CKYC Percenta Address Line 1 Address Line 2 Address Line 3 City/Town
ge of
Control
District State/Union Pin Code Country Mobile Telephone Telephone Area
Territory Number(s) Number(s) Code
Fax Number(s) Fax Area Code Filler
Segments Fields
Credit Facility Account Previous Facility / Sanctioned Currency Credit Type Tenure /
Number Account Loan Amount/ Code Weighted
Number Activation Notional Average
/ Amount of maturity
Sanction Contract period of
Date Contracts
Repayment Drawing Power Current Notional Loan Expiry / Loan Renewal Asset
Frequency Balance / Amount of Maturity Date Date Classification /
Limit Utilized Out- Days Past Due
/Mark to standing (DPD)
Market Restructur
ed
Contracts
Asset Classification Amount Overdue Overdue Overdue Bucket 03 Overdue Overdue Bucket
Date Overdue / Bucket 01 ( 1 Bucket 02 ( 61 – Bucket 04 05 (Above 180
Limit Overdue – 30 days) ( 31 – 60 90 days) (91 – 180 days)
days) days)
35

High Credit instalment Last Repaid Account Status Account Written Off Settled Amount
Amount Amount Status Amount
Date
Major reasons for Amount of Asset based Guarantee Bank Wilful Date
Restructuring4 Contracts Security Coverage Remark Default Classified
Classified as coverage Code Status as Wilful
NPA Default
Suit Filed Status Suit Reference Suit Amount in Date of Suit Dispute ID No. Transaction Other_BK
Number Rupees Type
Code
UFCE (Amount) UFCE Date
Guarantor Guarantor Guarantor Business Business Guarantor Individual Full Name
DUNS Type Category / Entity Name
Industry Name Prefix
Type
Gender Company Date of Date of Birth PAN Voter ID Passport Number
Registration Incorporation
Number
Driving License ID UID Ration Card No CIN DIN TIN Service Tax
number
Other ID Address Line 1 Address Line 2 Address Line 3 City/Town District State/Unio
n Territory
Country Mobile Telephone Telephone Fax Area Code Fax Number(s)
Pin Code Number(s) Area Number(s)
Code
Guarantee Invocation Date
Security Value of Currency Type Type of Security Date of Filler
Security Security Classificati Valuation
on
Dishonour of Cheques Date of Amount Instrument Number of Cheque Reaso Filler
Dishonour / Cheque times Issue n for
Number dishonoure Date Dishon
d our
File Closure Number of Number of Filler
Borrower Credit
Segments Facility
Segments
Note: The reporting fields of the Commercial reporting format to incorporate among others the
following catalogue values:
Field Name
Additional catalogue values
Account Status Inclusion of additional catalogue value:
• Restructured and Closed
4 This field would help in understanding whether the restructuring of loan of the borrower was due to external/ extraneous factors such as external
environment, general downturn in economy, etc., or company/ borrower specific issues such as change in management, performance of promoters, etc.
36

Credit Type Inclusion of additional catalogue values:
• Mudra term loan
• Mudra working capital
• Temporary Overdraft (account should be considered closed
by CICs when it is not reported in subsequent months by CIs
in view
of credit balance in the said account)
Major reasons for Inclusion of additional catalogue value:
restructuring • Restructured due to COVID-19
Sanction Date The reporting field to be mandatory
Location Type Inclusion of additional catalogue value
• Mortgage Property address
Relationship Inclusion of additional catalogue value
• Karta (HUF)
Asset Classification/ Removal of catalogue values:
Days Past Due • Special Mention Accounts
• Doubtful
Borrower’s Legal Removal of catalogue value:
Constitution • Not Classified
Class of Activity To be reported as per Basic Statistical Returns 1 and 2
37

Form 3: Uniform Credit Reporting Format for MFIs (Including SHG)
This document provides description of the file format for Microfinance data to be
reported to CICs. This format follows Group, Consumer, Account structure – Multiple
Groups, Each Group with Multiple Consumers and Each Consumer if taken credit has
an account. It is recommended that a separate file is shared with CIC for SHG
accounts and JLG + Individual accounts. All Microfinance borrowings in the names of
the individuals, regardless of the purpose, should be included in this format. The data
should contain all live loan accounts during the relevant period, all accounts which
got closed during the period and all accounts which opened during the period.
Irrespective of the frequency of data sharing, the format of data sharing remains the
same.
A. Segments in Input File Format
The following table describes the different segments that make up the Data Input File
Format
Segment
# Segment Option Occurrences Field
Tag
Separator
1 Header HDR Required Occurs once for a file Fixed length
separation
2 Group GRPCRD Required Occurs multiple Separated (¬ or ~ or
Segment times, as many Pipe ‘|’)
Groups in the
portfolio (only for
SHG
Groups)
3 Member/ CNSCRD Required Occurs multiple times, Separated (¬ or ~ or
Consumer as many customers in Pipe ‘|’)
Segment the Portfolio. Multiple
Members exist under
one Group
4 Address ADRCRD Required One or more for every Separated (¬ or ~ or
Segment Consumer Pipe
‘|’)
5 Account ACTCRD Required One or more for every Separated (¬ or ~ or
Segment Account Pipe ‘|’)
6 Trailer TRL Required Occurs once for a file Fixed length
Note: ¬ is ASCII Character 170.
38

B. Header Segment (HDR)
The Header Record is the first segment of the data submission file. It is a required
segment, only one Header segment is reported for each file and it is reported at the start
of the File. It contains information necessary to identify the Member Institution and the
Reporting date. It is a fixed length segment.
# Field Name Option Type Length Description
1 Segment Required AN 3 Must contain the value ‘HDR’ to
Identifier identify
the Header Segment.
2 Name of Required AN 5 Contains the name of the
Submission
submission
File
file, e.g. ‘HMMFI’ which indicates
CRIF High Mark Microfinance Input
File.
3 Layout Version Required AN 3 Indicates Input file format
Number version number. Contains the value
‘3.2’
4 Submitting Required AN 10 Must contain the unique member
MEMBER ID
ID
assigned by the CIC to the
Member Institution.
5 Submitting Required AN 30 Must contain the name of
MEMBER Name Member
Institution submitting the file
6 Submitting Required AN 30 Unique Branch ID assigned by
Branch ID When CRIF High Mark to the Institution’s
present Branch for a decentralized data
submission. Could be left blank, 30
spaces to be added if
BLANK.
7 Reported Date Required D 8 Must contain the date ‘AS OF
WHICH’ the data is being reported
to the CIC. If records in the file are
updated on different dates, use the
most recent date.
Valid calendar date in the
DDMMYYYY format
39

# Field Name Option Type Length Description
8 File Creation Required D 8 The date when the file was created,
Date/ Extraction which must be equal to or later than
Date date in the Date Reported Field.
Valid calendar date in DDMMYYYY
format.
For example, Date Reported is
August 31, 2007. If the file was
extracted on September 7, 2007
and submitted to CRIF High Mark
on September 8, 2007, then the
file creation date will be
September 7, 2007, i.e. 07092007.
9 Organization Required AN 3 Contains the organization's
Data Structure account or Customer structure.
Indicator
SHG for SHG data
JLG for JLG + Individual Data
10 Password Required AN 30 Must contain the encrypted
password assigned by CICs to the
Member Institution
11 System Required AN 30 A unique identifier agreed upon to
Vendor when identify the vendor of Member
Identifier available Institution, furnishing the data, in
case Vendor system is being used.
For in- house developed system,
specify ‘INHOUSE ‘.
Could be left blank, 30 spaces to be
added if BLANK
12 Vendor Required AN 10 The version of the system used to
System when furnish the data in case Vendor
Version available system is being used. For In-house
Identifier developed system, specify
‘INHOUSE ‘.
Could be left blank, 10 spaces to be
added if BLANK
13 Reserved for AN 20 Reserved for Future Use
Future Use
40

C. Group Segment (GRPCRD)
The Group Segment is the second segment in the data submission file. It contains the
information necessary to identify the Group (only for SHG). It is present once per Group.
Each Group can have many customers/members within it. This is a required segment if
Loan Category is T04 or T05 or T06 or T07.
# Field Name Type Len Option Description
gth
1 Segment Identifier A/N 6 Required Must contain the value ‘GRPCRD’
to
identify the Member/Consumer Segment.
2 Group Identifier A/N 50 Required Unique Group Identifier used by the
Member Institution to identify the Group
uniquely.
3 Group Name A/N 200 Required Name of the SHG Group
4 Group Loan A/N 30 Required Loan Account Number of the Group as
Account Number in the Bank’s records
5 Disbursed Amount N 9 Required Total Disbursed amount for this loan
(in
(Rs)
Rupees)
6 Outstanding N 9 Required Total outstanding principal for this loan
Balance (in
(Rs) Rupees)
7 Date D 8 Required Valid calendar date in DDMMYYYY
Opened/Disbursed format
8 Date Closed (if D 8 Required Valid calendar date in DDMMYYYY
closed) when format
present
9 Date of last D 8 Required Valid calendar date in DDMMYYYY
payment when format
present
10 Number of N 3 Required Original number of instalments at the time
Instalments When of disbursement
present
41

# Field Name Type Len Option Description
gth
11 Repayment A/N 3 Required Enumeration:
Frequency
F01- Weekly
F02 - Biweekly
F03 - Monthly
F04- Bimonthly
F05- Quarterly
F06- Semi-annually
F07-Annually
F08-Single Payment Loan (bullet / balloon)
F10-Other
12 Instalment Amount N 9 Required Instalment Amount for the Loan (Rs.)
13 Amount Overdue N 9 Required Amount which is due past the payment
(Rupees) date
14 DPD (Days past A/N 3 Required Enumeration:
due)
000 = 0 payments past due (current
account) with Positive Balance 001
to 999 = Number days past due. If an
account is above 999 days, mark as 999
XXX = No payment history available for
this month
15 Loan Cycle ID N 3 Required Renewal cycle number of the Group
When
present
16 Loan Type (Term or A/N 10 Required C01-Term
Cash Credit) Loan C02-
Cash Credit
17 Write Off Amount N 9 Required
(Rupees) When
present
18 Date Write-Off D 8 Required
(if written-off)
When
present
19 Write-off reason (if A/N 20 Required Enumeration:
written off) When
X01- First Payment
present
Default
X02-Death
42

# Field Name Type Len Option Description
gth
X03-Wilful Default Status
X04-Suit Filed, Willful Default
Status
X09-Untagged
X10 - Not Applicable
20 Groups’ A/N 200 Required Communication Address for the Group -
Communication when as per address proof document
(Number,
Address present
Village/Taluk, Landmark, District)
21 State Code N 2 Required if Must be a state code as defined
(Groups’ under Catalogues
Address is
Communication provided
Address)
22 Pin Code (Groups’ N 10 Required if Valid 6 digit PIN Code
Communication Address is
Address) provided
23 Telephone Number A/N 3 Required Telephone / contact information details
1 type Indicator When
Enumeration:
present
P01-Residence
P02-Company
P03- Mobile
P04-Permanent
P07-Other
P08-Untagged
24 Group A/N 15 Required Group’s telephone number (contact)
Telephone When
Number 1
present
25 Group’s Bank A/N 50 Required Name of the Bank where the group has
Account - Bank a savings bank account
Name
26 Group’s Bank A/N 50 Required IFSC Code (preferred) or Name of the
Account - Bank Branch where the group has a
Branch Name savings bank account
27 Group’s Bank A/N 35 Required Account Number of group’s savings
Account - bank account
Account
Number
43

# Field Name Type Len Option Description
gth
28 Group’s Bank N 10 Required if Account Balance (in Rupees) of group’s
Account - available savings bank account
Account
Balance
29 First Created Date D 8 Required if Date when the Group was formed
available
30 First Linkage Date D 8 Required if Date when the Group was first linked for
available credit
31 Group Identifier A/N 30 Required if Identifier for the Group as captured with
(Govt) available Government
32 Linked to a Govt A/N 20 Required if U01-NRLM
program available U02-NULM
U03-SRLM
U04-MEPMA
U99-Others
33 SHPI/NGO Identifier A/N 30 Required if Identifier for the NGO/SHPI as
captured
available
with the Member Institution
34 SHPI/NGO Name A/N 100 Required if Name of NGO/SHPI involved in Group
available Formation
35 SHPI/NGO Officer A/N 100 Required if Name of NGO/SHPI Personnel involved
in
Name available
Group Formation/Linkage
36 SHPI/NGO A/N 100 Required if Address of NGO/SHPI involved in Group
Address (with available Formation (Street, Village/Locality,
State and Pin Taluk, District, State, Pin Code)
code)
44

D. Member/Consumer Segment (CNSCRD)
The Member/Consumer Segment is the third segment in the data submission file. It
contains the information necessary to identify the Customer like name, date of birth, the
identification numbers like Voters ID, Aadhaar (UID), Driving License and so on. It is
present once per Customer. For group loans, Customer means Individual Member
within the group.
It is a good practice that the key demographic details of the individual member (name,
address, father/spouse name, age, Date of Birth) are captured exactly from one of the
standard KYC Identifiers, preferably from UID/Aadhaar, Voter ID, Ration card or
MNREGA Job Card.
# Field Name Type Length Option Description
1 Segment Identifier A/N 6 Required Must contain the value
‘CNSCRD’ to identify the
Member/Consumer Segment.
2 Member Identifier A/N 35 Required Unique customer identification
number used by the Member
institution
3 Branch Identifier A/N 30 Required Unique branch code of the
when Member Institution where the
present customer was originally
enrolled.
Could be left blank if not
available
4 Kendra/Centre Identifier A/N 30 Required Unique centre code of the
when Member Institution where the
present customer was originally
enrolled
Could be left blank if not
available
5 Group Identifier A/N 50 Required Unique group Identifier used by
When the Member Institution where
present the Customer had originally
enrolled. Or Group Name to be
provided here. If both are
present, then Group ID^Group
Name (separator as ^)
This is a required field if Loan
Category is T01 or T02 or T04
or T05 or T06 or T07
6 Member Name 1 A/N 100 Required Name of the Customer (First
Name)
45

# Field Name Type Length Option Description
7 Member Name 2 A/N 50 Required Name of the Customer
When (Middle Name)
present
8 Member Name 3 A/N 50 Required Name of the Customer
When (Last Name)
present
9 Alternate Name of Member A/N 30 Required If any ‘alias’ or maiden name
When of the Customer is captured.
present
10 Member Birth Date D 8 Required Date of birth of Customer. Valid
Calendar date in DDMMYYYY
format. Could be left blank if
Age
& Age as on is captured
11 Member Age N 3 Required If instead of DOB, age is
captured then the age as
captured at the time of
membership. Could be left
blank if DOB is captured.
12 Member's age as on date D 8 Required Date on which the age was
recorded - to identify the current
age
Valid Calendar date in
DDMMYYYY
format. Could be left blank if
DOB is captured
13 Member Gender Type A/N 1 Required Enumerated:
F - Female M –
Male
T - Third/Transgender
14 Marital Status Type A/N 3 Required Enumerated:
when M01 - Married
present M02 - Separated
M03- Divorced
M04 - Widowed
M05 - Unmarried
M06 - Untagged
Could be left blank if not
available
15 Key Person's name* A/N 100 Required Guardian's name. Either Key
when Person/Member
present Relationship/Nominee details
need to be filled
16 Key Person's relationship A/N 3 Required Enumerated:
when Key K01 – Father
Person’s K02 -
Name is Husband
populated K03- Mother
K04 -Son
K05 -
Daughter
46

# Field Name Type Length Option Description
K06-Wife
K15 –Other
17 Member relationship A/N 100 Required Relative name. Either Key
Name 1* Person/Member
Relationship/Nominee details
need to be filled.
18 Member relationship Type 1 A/N 3 Required Enumerated:
when K01 – Father
Member K02 -Husband
Relations K03- Mother
hip Name K04 -Son
1 is K05 -Daughter
populated K06-Wife
K15 -Other
19 Member relationship Name A/N 100 Required
when
2*
present
20 Member relationship Type 2 A/N 3 Required Enumerated:
when K01 – Father
Member K02 - Husband
Relations K03- Mother
hip Name K04 -Son
2 is K05 -Daughter
populated K06-Wife
K15 –Other
21 Member relationship Name A/N 100 Required
when
3*
present
22 Member relationship Type 3 A/N 3 Required Enumerated:
when K01 - Father
Member K02 - Husband
Relations K03- Mother
hip Name K04 -Son
3 is K05 -Daughter
populated K06-Wife
K15 -Other
23 Member relationship Name A/N 100 Required
when
4*
present
24 Member relationship Type 4 A/N 3 Required Enumerated:
when K01 - Father
Member K02 -
Relations Husband
hip Name K03- Mother
4 is K04 -Son
populated K05 -
Daughter
K06-Wife
K15 -Other
47

# Field Name Type Length Option Description
25 Nominee Name* A/N 100 Required Nominee for insurance
when purposes if defined. Either Key
present Person/Member
Relationship/Nominee details
need to be filled
26 Nominee relationship A/N 3 Required Enumerated:
when K01 - Father
Nominee K02 - Husband
Name is K03- Mother
populated K04 -Son
K05 -
Daughter
K06-Wife
K15 -Other
27 Nominee Age N 3 Required In years as of today
when
Nominee
Name is
populated
28 Voter's ID* A/N 20 Required
When
present
29 UID* A/N 40 Required Aadhaar
When
present
30 PAN* A/N 15 Required
When
present
31 Ration Card* A/N 20 Required
When
present
32 Member Other ID 1 Type A/N 20 Required Reserved for NREGA ID. If
NREGA ID is captured, then
description When
put ‘NREGA’ in this field
present
‘CKYC’ to be reported, if value
of
CKYC is available
33 Member Other ID 1* A/N 30 Required If NREGA ID is captured, then
When Identifier Number to be
present captured here
CKYC value to be reported
34 Member Other ID 2 Type A/N 20 Required If any other id is captured, then
When information about such id
description
present
35 Member Other ID 2* A/N 30 Required If any other id is captured, then
When information about such id
present
48

# Field Name Type Length Option Description
36 Other ID 3 Type A/N 20 Required If any other id is captured, then
When information about such id
present
37 Other ID 3 Value* A/N 30 Required If any other id is captured, then
When information about such id
present
38 Telephone Number 1 type A/N 3 Required Telephone / contact
When information details
Indicator
present
Enumeration:
P01-Residence
P02-Company
P03- Mobile
P04-Permanent
P07-Other
P08-Un tagged
39 Member Telephone A/N 15 Required
Number 1
40 Telephone Number 2 type A/N 3 Required Enumeration
When :
Indicator
present P01-
Residence
P02-Company
P03- Mobile
P04-
Permanent
P07-Other
P08-Un
tagged
41 Member Telephone Number A/N 15 Required
2 When
present
42 Member’s Educational A/N 3 Required Educational Qualification of the
Customer (Individual Member)
Qualification
Enumeration:
Y01: Illiterate
Y02: Passed 5th class
Y03: Passed 8th class .
Y04: Passed 10th class
Y05: Above 10th
43 Asset ownership A/N 3 Required If the customer has any assets,
When then mark Y
indicator/Poverty Index
present
Enumeration:
Y-Yes
N- No
If Poverty Index is available,
then it is to be directly
49

# Field Name Type Length Option Description
supplied.
Provide poverty index (if
calculated internally by the
Member Institution) or related
details such as BPL, etc
44 Number of Dependents N 2 Required Dependent family members
When
present
45 Bank Account - Bank Name A/N 50 Required Name of the Bank where
the customer has a savings
bank
account
46 Bank Account - Branch A/N 50 Required IFSC Code (preferred) or Name
of the Bank Branch where the
Name
customer has a savings bank
account
47 Bank Account - Account A/N 35 Required Account Number of
customer’s savings bank
Number
account
48 Occupation A/N 50 Required Occupation/Profession of the
When Customer
present
Enumeration:
Z01- Home Maker
Z02- Landless labourer
Z03- Marginal
Farmer
Z04- Small farmer
Z05- Non-farming
Z06- Others
49 Total Monthly Family N 9 Required In Rupees, no decimal
Income
Erroneous/ Non- submission of
data in this field will lead to
rejection of the record.
50 Monthly Family Expenses N 9 Required In Rupees, no decimal
51 Member's Religion A/N 3 Required Customer’s
When Religion
present Enumeration:
R01 - Hindu
R02 - Muslim
R03 - Christian
R04 - Sikh
R05 - Buddhist
R06 - Jain
R07 - Bahai
R08 -Others
50

# Field Name Type Length Option Description
R09 - Religion not stated
52 Member's Caste or Social A/N 30 Required Customer’s Caste
Enumeration:
Strata
V01 – SC
V02 - ST
V03 - OBC
V04 - NT/VJ (Vimukta Jati and
Nomadic Tribes)
V05 - General
V08 - Others
V09 - Untagged
53 Member’s Role A/N 3 Required Indicator for the role of
When Customer within the group
present Enumeration:
L01- Leader/President/Office-
bearer
L02-Associate/ Secretary
L03-Member
L04- Untagged
54 Centre Leader indicator A/N 1 Required Is the customer a centre leader
when
present Enumeration:
Y- Yes
N- No
U- Untagged
55 Member’s Status A/N 3 Required Indicator for the engagement
when status of the Member within the
present Group
Enumeration:
W01- Active (Loanee Member)
W02-Inactive/Dormant
(Non- loanee member)
W03-Exited
W04-Untagged
* One of Relationship details (Key Person’s Name, Member Relationship Name, Nominee
Name) or KYC IDs (Voter’s ID, UID/Aadhaar, Ration Card, PAN, Other IDs) is required. For the
Microfinance customers, UID/Aadhaar, Voter’s ID, Ration Card Number and NREGA ID are
most widely used identifiers.
51

E. Address Segment (ADRCRD)
The Address Segment is the fourth segment in the data submission file. It contains the
addresses of the customer - permanent address and present address for a customer
along with state code and PIN code. One address segment is mandatory per Member
segment.
# Field Name Type Length Option Description
56 Segment Identifier A/N 6 Required Must contain the value ‘ADRCRD’
to identify the Address Segment.
57 Member's A/N 200 Required Permanent address of the
Permanent Address when Customer- as per address
present proof
document
58 State Code (Permanent N 2 Required Must be a state code as defined
Address) if under Catalogues
Permane
nt
Address
is
provided
59 Pin Code (Permanent N 10 Required Valid 6-digit PIN Code
Address) if
Permane
nt
Address
is
provided
60 Member's A/N 200 Required Present or Communication
Current Address address of the Customer - if not
residing in permanent address.
If only 1 address is
available, provide the
same as current address
61 State Code (Current N 2 Required Must be a state code as defined
Address) under Catalogues
62 Pin Code (Current N 10 Required Valid 6-digit PIN Code
Address)
63 E-mail ID A/N 30 Required
When
present
Note: It is advisable to capture the address exactly from one of the KYC Identifiers
52

F. Account Segment (ACTCRD)
The Account Segment is the fifth segment within the data submission file. It contains
the financial information related to account such as account number, type of credit
product, original and current terms and repayment information. More than one Account
segment can be present for one Customer segment.
# Field Name Type Length Option Description
64 Segment Identifier A/N 6 Required Must contain the value "ACTCRD" to
identify the Account Segment.
65 Unique Account A/N 35 Required This field will not change even if the
Reference number Account number changes, it can
have customer ID.
This field must be consistent on each
submission basis to avoid duplication
of information.
In case of a branch split or branch
join where the account number
changes within the tenor of the loan,
the original loan account number
should be shown
here.
66 Account Number A/N 35 Required Account number of the loan account.
Will be same as previous field if no
split or branch combination has
happened
during the tenor of the loan.
67 Branch Identifier A/N 30 Required Unique branch code where the loan
when account is held currently.
present Could be left blank if not available
68 Kendra/Centre A/N 30 Required Unique center code where the loan
Identifier when account is held currently
present Could be left blank if not available
69 Loan Officer A/N 30 Required Employee Code of Officer originating
the loan
originating the when
Could be left blank if not available
loan present
70 Date of Account D 8 Required Date on which Account was last
Information
updated.
Valid calendar date in DDMMYYYY
format
53

# Field Name Type Length Option Description
71 Loan Category5 A/N 3 Required Enumeration:
T01- JLG Group
T02- JLG Individual
T03 - Individual
T04 - SHG Group
T05 - SHG Individual
T06 - SHG Group - Govt
T07 - SHG Intra-Group
T08 - Others
72 Group Identifier A/N 50 Required Required field if Loan Category is
When T01 or T02 or T04 or T05 or T06 or
present T07
This is the unique group code
assigned by the Member Institution.
Group Name to be provided here. If
both are present, then provide it as
“Group ID^Group
Name”
73 Loan Cycle-id A/N 30 Required Renewal cycle number of the
When customer with the Member
present Institution
74 Loan Purpose A/N 20 Required Purpose of the loan
75 Account Status A/N 3 Required Enumeration:
S01 - Loan Submitted
S02 - Loan Approved - Not yet
disbursed S03 - Loan Declined
S04 - Current
S05 - Delinquent S06 - Written Off
S07 - Account Closed
S08- Restructured due to COVID-19
S09-Restructured & Closed
S10-Settled
S11-Post Write Off Settled S12-Post
Write Off Closed
S15 – Cancelled
76 Application date D 8 Required Valid calendar date in DDMMYYYY
format
When
present
5 JLG-Individual: JLG loan where lending is being tracked at individual level; JLG-Group: JLG loan where lending is being tracked at group
level; Individual: Individual Microfinance loan (not JLG or SHG) – this loan should either be reported in this format or in the consumer data
format but not in both formats; SHG Individual: where the amount of lending is being tracked at individual level; SHG – Group: where the
lent amount is being tracked at Group level only; SHG Group Govt: same as SHG Group but linked to a Government program; SHG-Group-
Intra: same as Group covering intra group lending
54

# Field Name Type Length Option Description
77 Sanctioned Date D 8 Required Valid calendar date in DDMMYYYY
format
When
present
78 Date D 8 Required Valid calendar date in DDMMYYYY
Opened/Disburse format
D
79 Date Closed (if D 8 Required Required if account status is S07.
closed) When Valid calendar date in DDMMYYYY
present format
80 Date of last D 8 Required Valid calendar date in DDMMYYYY
payment format
When
present
81 Applied For N 9 Required Amount applied for in the
amount application
When
present
82 Loan amount N 9 Required Could be replicated with value under
Sanctioned Total Amount Disbursed (Rupees)
83 Total Amount N 9 Required Amount disbursed
Disbursed
(Rupees)
84 Number of N 3 Required Original Number of instalments at
Instalments the time of disbursement
Erroneous/ Non- submission of data
in this field will lead to rejection of
the record.
85 Repayment A/N 3 Required Enumeration:
Frequency F01- Weekly
F02 - Biweekly F03 - Monthly F04-
Bimonthly F05- Quarterly
F06- Semi-annually F07-Annually
F08-Single Payment Loan (bullet /
balloon)
F10-Other
Erroneous/ Non- submission of data
in this field will lead to rejection of
the record.
86 Minimum Amount N 9 Required Instalment Amount for the Loan
Due/Instalment
Amount Erroneous/ Non- submission of data
in this field will lead to rejection of
the record.
55

# Field Name Type Length Option Description
87 Current N 9 Required Only principal outstanding on the
loan
Balance
(Rupees)
88 Amount Overdue N 9 Required Amount which is due past the
(Rupees) payment
date
89 DPD (Days past A/N 3 Required Enumeration:
due) 000 = 0 payments past due (current
account) with Positive Balance
001 to 999 = Number days past due.
If an account is above 999 days,
mark as 999 XXX = No payment
history available for
this month
90 Write Off Amount N 9 Required Required if account status is S06
(Rupees) When
present
91 Date Write-Off (if D 8 Required Required if account status is S06.
written-off) Valid calendar date in DDMMYYYY
When
format
present
92 Write-off reason A/N 20 Required Enumeration: required if account
(if written off) When status is S06
present X01- First Payment Default X02-
Death
X03-Wilful Default Status
X04-Suit Filed, Wilful Default Status
X09-Untagged
X10 - Not Applicable
93 No. of meetings N 3 Required Number of center meetings held
held When since the loan disbursement
present
94 No. of meetings N 3 Required Number of center meetings out of
missed
When the above which the customer has
present not attended
95 Insurance A/N 1 Required Enumeration:
Indicator Y- Yes
When
N- No
present
96 Type of Insurance A/N 3 Required Enumeration:
When L01 - Life Insurance
present L02 - Credit Insurance
L03 - Health/Medical Insurance
L04 - Property Insurance
L05 - Liability Insurance
L10 – Other
56

# Field Name Type Length Option Description
97 Sum N 10 Required Sum Assured for the Insurance
Assured/Coverage
When
present
98 Agreed meeting A/N 3 Required Enumeration:
day of the week When MON - Monday
present TUE - Tuesday
WED - Wednesday
THU - Thursday
FRI - Friday
SAT - Saturday SUN - Sunday
99 Agreed Meeting A/N 5 Required Should be in HH:MM format
time of the day
When
present
100 Dummy A/N 30 Required Reserved for future use
When
present
57

G. Trailer Segment (TRL)
The Trailer Record is the last segment of the credit reporting file. This segment is a
required segment, appears only once per file and indicates end of the file. It is a fixed
length segment.
# Field Name Option Type Length Description
1 Segment Identifier Required AN 3 Must contain the value ‘TRL’ to
identify the Trailer Segment.
2 Layout Version Required AN 3 Indicates Input file format
Number
version number. Contains the
value ‘3.0’
3 Submitting Required AN 10 Must contain the unique Member
Member ID
ID assigned by CRIF High Mark
to the Member Institution.
4 Reserved for AN 20 Reserved for Future Use
Future Use
58

Glossary
Term Description
D Date
N Numeric data
A/N Alphanumeric
Catalogues
A: State
Code Description Code Description
AN Andaman and Nicobar Islands LD Lakshadweep
AP Andhra Pradesh MH Madhya Pradesh
AR Arunachal Pradesh ML Maharashtra
AS Assam MN Manipur
BR Bihar MP Meghalaya
CG Chandigarh MZ Mizoram
CH Chhattisgarh NL Nagaland
DD Dadra and Nagar Haveli OR Orissa
DL Delhi PB Punjab
DN Daman and Diu PY Puducherry
GA Goa RJ Rajasthan
GJ Gujarat SK Sikkim
HP Haryana TN Tamil Nadu
HR Himachal Pradesh TR Tripura
JH Jammu and Kashmir TS Telangana State
JK Jharkhand UK (Formerly Uttarakhand
UA)
KA Karnataka UP Uttar Pradesh
KL Kerala WB West Bengal
59

Sample Structure
Header Segment
Segment
Identifier HDR
Name of HMMFI
Submission File
Layout 3.2
Version Number
Submitting
MEMBER ID XXXXXXXXXX
Submitting MEMBER XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX
Name
Submitting
Branch ID XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX
Reported
Date 31032016
File Creation Date/ Extraction
Date 12042016
Organization Member XXX
Structure Indicator
Password XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX
System Vendor XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX
Identifier
Vendor System Version XXXXXXXXX
Identifier
Reserved for
Future Use XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX
Trailer Segment
Segment Identifier TRL
Layout Version Number 3.0
Submitting Member ID XXXXXXXXXX
Reserved for Future Use XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX
60

Data Segment
Segment Identifier A/N CNSCRD
Member Identifier A/N 12345678
Branch Identifier A/N 9003
Kendra/Centre Identifier A/N 039003
Group Identifier A/N 039001^INDIRA SHG
Member Name 1 A/N ANITA JAYANT NATH
Member Name 2 A/N
Member Name 3 A/N
Alternate Name of Member A/N
Member Birth Date (DDMMYYYY) 01011975
Member Age N 39
Member's age as on date (DDMMYYYY) 31012015
Member Gender Type A/N F
Marital Status Type A/N M01
Key Person's name A/N JAYANT NATH
Key Person's relationship A/N K02
Member relationship Name 1 A/N
Member relationship Type 1 A/N
Member relationship Name 2 A/N
Member relationship Type 2 A/N
Member relationship Name 3 A/N
Member relationship Type 3 A/N
Member relationship Name 4 A/N
Member relationship Type 4 A/N
Nominee Name A/N JAYANT NATH
Nominee relationship A/N K02
Nominee Age N
Voter's ID A/N
UID A/N
PAN A/N
Ration Card A/N
Member Other ID 1 Type description A/N VOTER ID
Member Other ID 1 A/N Value1
Member Other ID 2 Type description A/N
Member Other ID 2 A/N
Other ID 3 Type A/N
61

Other ID 3 Value A/N
Telephone Number 1 type Indicator A/N P03
Member Telephone Number 1 A/N 8754698XXX
Telephone Number 2 type Indicator A/N
Member Telephone Number 2 A/N
Member’s Educational Qualification A/N
Asset ownership indicator/ Poverty A/N
Index
Number of Dependents N 2
Bank Account - Bank Name A/N
Bank Account - Branch Name A/N
Bank Account - Account Number A/N
Occupation A/N
Total Monthly Family Income N
Monthly Family Expenses N
Member's Religion A/N R08
Member's Caste A/N
Member’s Role A/N L01
Centre Leader indicator A/N Y
Member’s Status A/N W01
Segment Identifier A/N ADRCRD
Member's Permanent Address A/N LAING PART,
LAING,RAJGANGPUR,SUNDARGA
RH
State Code (Permanent Address) N OR
Pin Code (Permanent Address) N 770017
Member's Current Address A/N LAING PART,
LAING,RAJGANGPUR,SUNDARGA
RH
State Code (Current Address) N OR
Pin Code (Current Address) N 770017
Address A/N
Segment Identifier A/N ACTCRD
Unique Account Reference number A/N 039000012
Account Number A/N 123456
Branch Identifier A/N 9003
Kendra/Centre Identifier A/N 039003
Loan Officer for Originating the loan A/N ABC XYZ
Date of Account Information D (DDMMYYYY) 03102015
Loan Category A/N T04
62

Group Identifier A/N 039001^INDIRA SHG
Loan Cycle-id A/N 1
Loan Purpose A/N SEA
Account Status A/N S04
Application date (DDMMYYYY) 04022014
Sanctioned Date (DDMMYYYY) 28022014
Date Opened/Disbursed (DDMMYYYY) 28022014
Date Closed (if closed) (DDMMYYYY)
Date of last payment (DDMMYYYY) 08032016
Applied For amount N 15000
Loan amount Sanctioned N 15000
Total Amount Disbursed (Rupees) N 15000
Number of Instalments N 24
Repayment Frequency A/N F03
Minimum Amt Due/Instalment N 808
Amount
Current Balance (Rupees) N 4599
Amount Overdue (Rupees) N 0
DPD (Days past due) A/N 0
Write Off Amount (Rupees) N
Date Write-Off (if written-off) (DDMMYYYY)
Write-off reason (if written off) A/N
No. of meetings held N 45
No. of meetings missed N 22
Insurance Indicator A/N
Type of Insurance A/N
Sum Assured/Coverage N
Agreed meeting day of the week A/N
Agreed Meeting time of the day A/N
Dummy A/N
63

Annex II
Format for reporting information on Commercial Papers to Credit Information
Companies
Update in the description
"CP" proposed Available Field in Commercial
column of the format, in
Fields Data Submission format
case of commercial paper
Name of CP issuer BS Segment - Field No. 4. Field “Name of the CP Issuer”
Name: Borrower's Name
CP Amount CR Segment - Field No. 5. Field “Amount of CP” to be given
Name: Sanctioned Amount/
Notional Amount of Contract
Issue Date CR Segment - Field No. 4. Field “Issue Date” to be given
Name: Facility / Loan Activation /
Sanction Date
Maturity Date CR Segment - Field No. 13. Field “Maturity Date” to be given
Name: Loan Expiry / Maturity Date
Name of CRA BS Segment- Field No. 24. Field “Name of CRA” to be
Name: Assessment Agency / reported
Authority
Rating Agency BS Segment - Field No. 23. Field “Rating Assigned” to be
Name: Credit Rating Reported
Amount of Default CR Segment - Field No. 17. Field “Amount of Default” to be
Name: Amount Overdue / Limit given
Overdue
64

Annex III
Indicative Data Formats for collection of individual SHG members6
Table 1: Information to be collected from individual SHG members where the total
amount of loan to be attributed to or to be availed by the SHG member exceeds ₹30, 0007
Particulars required Particulars provided Basis
I. Non-Credit information
1. Name of the SHG To be provided by the SHG member
2. Savings Bank Account Number of To be provided by the
the SHG SHG member
3. Loan Account Number of the SHG To be assigned by the bank
4. Name of the SHG member As it appears on the identity
document accepted by the CI or
in the records of the CI
5. The identity document accepted Aadhaar Card No. /Voter
by the bank ID/PAN/Driving licence/NREGA
Card /Passport8
6. Unique number of the identity Documentary proof needed
document accepted by the bank,
if available
7. Father’s /Husband’s Name As mentioned in the identity
document accepted by the CI
8. Male or Female As declared by the SHG
member
9. Date of birth (if printed on the DD/MM/YYYY
identity document)
10. Address (Complete address with Declaration basis9
State Code and PIN Code)
11. Information about other existing Declaration basis
bank accounts
12. Educational level Codes to be used Declaration basis
Illiterate: 1
th
Passed 5 class: 2
6 The forms set out in this are meant to indicate the information requirements and could be digitized in any format, subject to all the particulars
and details indicated herein being collected.
7 To be collected at the time of sanctioning a loan to new SHGs or at the time of renewal of existing loans or granting additional loans to the
existing SHGs. With the approval of their boards, the banks with Gross NPA ratio exceeding 10% in the SHG loan segment may fix a lower
threshold for collecting the information/data indicated in this Table and the next one. This amount will not include any subsidy or margin out of the
member’s own savings that goes towards funding the activity or the purpose for which the loan is taken (both either back end or front end).
8 The banks may specifically see if any of the SHG members would fall within the purview of Reserve Bank of India (Commercial Banks – Know
Your Customer) Directions, 2025 (as amended from time to time) relating to introduction of simplified measures for proof of identity by RBI and
offer Small Deposit Accounts/Basic Saving Bank Deposit Account to them. Wherever a SHG member is willing to open such an account, the KYC
should be done as per RBI circular and reported to the Central KYC Registry and the CICs. No document to be collected if the KYC has already
been done at the time of opening of the Savings bank Account of the SHG member, or otherwise.
9 The CI to pull out information from Central KYC registry.
65

th
Passed 8 class: 3
th
Passed 10 class: 4
th
Above 10 class: 5
13. Occupation Codes to be used Declaration basis
Home maker: 1
Landless labourer: 2 Marginal
Farmer: 3
Small Farmer: 4
14. Monthly Family income (in Rs.) Declaration basis
15. Social strata Codes to be used Declaration basis
SC: 1
ST: 2
OBC: 3
General : 5
16. Mobile Number (if available) Declaration basis
II. Credit related information10
17. Information about existing loans Based on the CIC report obtained by
– through other SHGs where the CI or a CI report (in the absence
the individual is a member of a CIC report)
17.1 Status of the SHG Account Based on the CIC report obtained by
□ Name of the SHG the CI, if available
□ SHG’s loan Account Number
□ Name of the lending bank
□ Amount borrowed
□ Amount outstanding
□ Status of the account
□ Regular
□ Defaulter
□ Settled
□ Sub-judice
17.2 Based on CIC report, if
If in default, status of the SHG
available; in other cases a
member’s loan account if the
letter from the SHG to be
SHG loan was distributed to
relied upon
him/her11
• Name of the SHG
• Name of the lending bank
• Amount borrowed
• Amount outstanding
18. The amount of loan proposed to Letter from the
be taken out of the group loan President/Secretary of the SHG. To
granted by the CI to the SHG12 be verified by the CI later on.
10 Not applicable, if the group loan is up to ₹1,00,000/-.
11 Until the data base of individual SHG members is available with the CICs, this information may be collected and relied upon based on a letter
provided by the SHG concerned. 17.2 will not be applicable if the SHG account is regular.
12 All SHGs must decide upfront how they propose to utilize the SHG loan. The actual distribution of the loan to individual members wherever it
was agreed to be above Rs. 30,000 or where the actual amount disbursed exceeded Rs.30000 though not agreed at the time of taking loan from
the CI, must be reported to the CI by the SHG office bearers. Non-adherence to this condition may be taken into account while extending further
loan to the SHG or renewing its cash credit limit next time. The CIs need to incorporate suitable clauses in the loan agreements relating to penal
provisions for providing wrong information regarding the amount of loans taken out of the group loans. Depending upon their experience, CIs may
66

19. The loans taken by the member in This information may be collected
individual capacity from other based on CIC reports, if available.
sources If not available with CICs,
individual CI’s reports may be
sought once the member declares
his previous
borrowings.
also insist on maintenance of verifiable record of the amounts distributed out of CI loans in cases where the average amount of loan availed by
the SHG per member exceeds Rs.20,000/.
67

Table 2: Information to be collected from individual SHG members where the total
amount of loan to be attributed to or to be availed by the SHG member is upto
₹30,00013
Particulars required Particulars Basis
provided
I. Non-Credit information
1. Name of the SHG To be provided by the SHG
member
2. Savings Bank Account To be provided by the SHG
Number of the SHG member
3. Loan Account Number of To be assigned by the CI
the SHG
4. Name of the SHG member As it appears on the identity
document accepted by the
bank or record of the CI
5. The identity document Aadhaar Card No. / Voter
accepted by the CI ID/PAN/Driving licence /
NREGA No. /Passport14
6. Unique number of the identity Documentary proof needed
document accepted by the
CI, if available
7. Father’s /Husband’s Name As mentioned in the identity
document accepted by the CI
8. Male or Female As declared by the SHG
member
9. Date of birth (if printed on DD/MM/YYYY
the identity document)
10. Address (Complete address Declaration basis15
with State Code and PIN
Code)
11. Information about other Declaration basis
existing bank accounts
12. Educational level Codes to be used Declaration basis
Illiterate: 1
th 1
Passed 5 Class: 2
3
th
Passed 8 Class: 3
4
th
Passed 10 class: 4 5
Above 10
th: 5
13. Occupation Codes to be used Declaration basis
Home maker: 1
Landless Labourer: 2
Marginal farmer: 3
13 To be collected at the time of sanctioning a loan to new SHGs or at the time of renewal of existing loans or granting additional loans to the existing
SHGs. With the approval of their boards, the banks with Gross NPA ratio exceeding 10% in the SHG loan segment may fix a lower threshold for
collecting the information/data indicated in this Table. This amount will not include any subsidy or margin out of the member’s own savings that goes
towards funding the activity or the purpose for which the loan is taken (both either back end or front end).
14 The banks may specifically see if any of the SHG members would fall within the purview of Reserve Bank of India (Commercial Banks – Know Your
Customer) Directions, 2025 (as amended from time to time) relating to introduction of simplified measures for proof of identity by RBI and offer Small
Deposit Accounts/Basic Saving Bank Deposit Account to them. Wherever a SHG member is willing to open such an account, the KYC should be done
as per RBI circular and reported to the Central KYC Registry and the CICs. No document to be collected if the KYC has already been done at the time
of opening of the Savings bank Account of the SHG member, or otherwise.
15The CI to pull out information from Central KYC.
68

Small Farmer: 4
14. Monthly Family income Declaration basis
(in ₹)
15. Social strata Codes to be used Declaration basis)
SC: 1
ST: 2
OBC: 3
General: 5
16. Mobile Number (if available) Declaration basis
II. Credit information16 related
17. Information about existing Based on the CIC report
loans – through other SHGs obtained by the CI or a CI
where the individual is a report (in the absence of a CIC
member report)
17.1 Based on the CIC report
Status of the SHG Account obtained by the CI, if available
□ Name of the SHG
□ SHG’s loan Account
Number
□ Name of the lending bank
□ Amount borrowed
□ Amount outstanding
□ Status of the account
□ Regular
□ Defaulter
□ Settled
□ Sub-judice
18. The amount of loan Based on CIC report, if
proposed to be taken out of the available
group loan granted by the CI to
the SHG
19. The loans taken by the The amount of loan to be
member in individual capacity verified by the CI from the
from other sources SHG records.
16 Not applicable, if the group loan is up to ₹1,00,000/-.
69

Table 317: Information on individual SHG members to be reported by CIs to CICs
as part of the Uniform Credit Reporting Format (MFI)
Particulars to be reported Corresponding Field in the MFI Reporting
Format
I. Non- credit related information
1. Name (as it appears on the identity Member Segment -Field No. 6,7,8 for Name of
document) the Customer
2. The nature of the identity Member Segment – Field No. 32, 34,36 for Other
document accepted by the bank ID Type Description
3. Unique number of the identity Member Segment - Field No. 33, 35, 37 for Other
document accepted by the bank, if ID Value;
available Member Segment – Field No. 28 to 31 should be
used for fields such as UID (Aadhaar), Voter’s ID,
Ration Card Number
4. Date of birth Member Segment - Field No. 10 for Member Birth
(DD/MM/YYYY) Date
5. Father’s /Husband’s Name Member Segment - Field No. 17,18,19,20 for
Member Relationship Details
6. Address (Complete address with Address Segment – Field No. 60, 61, 62 for
State Code and PIN Code) Address, State Code and PIN Code
7. Male or Female Member Segment - Field No. 13 for Member
Gender Type
8. Name of the SHG of which the Member Segment - Field No. 5 for Group
person is a member Identifier The field has been modified to capture
‘Group Unique ID^Group Name’
9. Savings Account Number of the Member Segment - Field No. 45,46, 47 for
SHG Member’s Savings Bank Details (Bank Name,
Branch Code, Account)
10. Loan Account Number of the SHG Account Segment - Field No. 66 for Account
Number
11. Reference number of any other Member Segment - Field No. 28-31 and 35, 37
identity document that has been for Other ID Value
relied upon by the bank
12. Educational level of the SHG Member Segment - Field No. 42 on Member’s
member Educational Qualification
13. Monthly Family income (in Rs.) Member Segment - Field No. 49 for Total Monthly
Family Income
14. Occupation Member Segment - Field No. 48 for Occupation
15. Social strata Member Segment - Field No. 52 for Member’s
Caste
16. Mobile No. Member Segment - Field No. 39, 41 for Member’s
Phone Number
II. Credit related information18
17. Amount of loan availed by the Account Segment - Field No. 83 for Total Amount
member from the SHG loan Disbursed
17 RBI has set up a Technical Working Group comprising representatives from various CIs and CICs to institutionalise a continuing
mechanism for reviewing and making changes where necessary to the data formats. This Group shall suitably adapt Table 3 for the
purpose of reporting of data by CIs to the CICs electronically.
18 Not applicable, if the group loan is up to ₹1,00,000/-.
70

Table 4: Information on individual SHG members to be collected at the time
of opening of new SHG Savings Bank Accounts of the SHG
Particulars required Particulars Basis
provided
1. Name of the SHG To be filled in by the SHG
member
2. Savings Bank Account To be assigned by
Number of the SHG the bank
3. Name of the SHG member As it appears on the identity
document accepted by the CI
4. The identity document accepted Aadhaar Card No. /Voter
by the bank ID/PAN/Driving licence/NREGA
Card /Passport19
5. Unique number of the identity Documentary proof Needed
document accepted by the bank, if
available
6. Father’s /Husband’s Name As mentioned in the identity
document accepted by the bank
7. Male or Female As declared by the SHG member
8. Date of birth (if printed on DD/MM/YYYY
the identity
document)
9. Address (Complete address Declaration basis20
with State Code and PIN Code)
10. Information about other Declaration basis
existing bank accounts
11. Educational level Codes to be used Declaration basis
Illiterate: 1
th
Passed 5 class: 2
th
Passed 8 class: 3
th
Passed 10 class : 4
th
Above 10 : 5
12. Occupation Codes to be used Declaration basis
Home maker : 1
Landless Labourer: 2
Marginal Farmer : 3
Small Farmer : 4
13. Monthly Family income (in Rs.) Declaration basis
14. Social strata Codes to be used Declaration basis
SC: 1
ST: 2
OBC: 3
General : 5
15. Mobile Number (if available) Declaration basis
19 A bank may specifically see if any of the SHG members would fall within the purview of Reserve Bank of India (Commercial Banks – Know Your
Customer) Directions, 2025 (as amended from time to time) relating to introduction of simplified measures for proof of identity by RBI and offer Small
Deposit Accounts/Basic Saving Bank Deposit Account to them. Wherever a SHG member is willing to open such an account, the KYC should be done as
per RBI circular and reported to the Central KYC Registry and the CICs.
20 The bank will pull out information from Central KYC registry.
71

Annex IV
Information on secured assets possessed under the SARFAESI Act, 2002
Sl. No Branch State Borrow Guarantor Registered Registered Outstandi Asset Date of Details of Name of the Title
Name er Name address address ng amount Classific Asset security holder of the
Name (wherever of the of the (in ₹) ation classificati possessed security
Applicable) Borrower Guarantor on possessed
(wherever
applicable)

Annex V
Modifications in the Uniform Credit Reporting Format
1. The nomenclature of the field ‘Fax Number’ shall be changed to ‘Email ID’ in the Commercial
Bureau reporting format.
2. The nomenclature of the field ‘dummy’ shall be changed to ‘Email ID’ under the MFI Bureau
reporting format.
3. The above fields shall continue to be categorised as ‘when available’.
73

Annex-VI
Illustration on the timelines for reporting credit information
Credit CIs to share CICs to ingest and CIs to share
Information to be data with share rectification rectification in
reported as on CICs by report with CIs by rejected data with
date CICs by
9th 13th 16th 20th
16th 20th 23rd 27th
Day of
the
23rd 27th 30th 5th of the next month
month
Last day of month 5th of the 8th of next month 13th of the next
next month month
74