भारतीय �रज़वर् बैंक
RESERVE BANK OF INDIA
RBI/DOR/2025-26/350
DOR.CRE.REC.No.269/07-02-008/2025-26 November 28, 2025
Reserve Bank of India (Non-Banking Financial Companies – Credit Risk
Management) Directions, 2025 (Updated as on July 01, 2026)
Table of Contents
Chapter I - Preliminary ............................................................................................... 2
Chapter II - Board Approved Policies ....................................................................... 9
Chapter III - Credit Risk Evaluation ........................................................................ 10
Chapter IV - Regulatory Restrictions ...................................................................... 12
Chapter V - Regulations on Credit Default Swaps (CDS) – NBFCs as Users ...... 16
Chapter VI - Legal Entity Identifier (LEI) for Borrowers ........................................ 23
Chapter VII - Filing of Security Interest relating to Immovable (other than
equitable mortgage), Movable, and Intangible Assets in CERSAI ....................... 25
Chapter VIII - Repeal and other provisions ............................................................ 27
Annex I ...................................................................................................................... 29

Introduction
Non-Banking Financial Companies (NBFCs), in the course of financial intermediation, are
exposed to various financial and non-financial risks, of which credit risk is the one of the
most significant risks. If not managed effectively, credit risk may have ramifications for a
range of other risk categories too. As credit exposures of NBFCs encompass varied
sectors, borrower types and products with their own idiosyncratic complexities as well as
systemic implications due to interconnectedness among themselves, credit risk
management of NBFCs involve a range of prudential tools, including statutory and
regulatory restrictions / prohibitions on certain activities. Recognising this, the Reserve
Bank has, from time to time, issued guidelines to strengthen credit risk management
practices.
Accordingly, in exercise of the powers conferred by sections 45JA, 45L and 45M of the
Reserve Bank of India Act, 1934; sections 30A and 32 of the National Housing Bank Act,
1987 and section 3 read with section 31A and section 6 of the Factoring Regulation Act,
2011, and all other provisions / laws enabling the Reserve Bank of India (hereinafter
called the Reserve Bank) in this regard, Reserve Bank being satisfied that it is necessary
and expedient in the public interest so to do, hereby, issues these Directions hereinafter
specified.
Chapter I - Preliminary
A. Short title and Commencement
1. These Directions shall be called the Reserve Bank of India (Non-Banking Financial
Companies - Credit Risk Management) Directions, 2025.
2. These Directions shall come into effect immediately upon issuance.
B. Applicability
3. (1) These Directions shall be applicable to the following Non-Banking Financial
Companies (hereinafter collectively referred to as ‘NBFCs’ and individually as ‘an NBFC’),
subject to layer-wise applicability:
2

(i) NBFC-D registered with the RBI under the provisions of the RBI Act, 1934;
(ii) NBFC-ICC registered with the RBI under the provisions of the RBI Act, 1934;
(iii) NBFC-Factor registered with the RBI under the provisions of the Factoring
Regulation Act, 2011;
(iv) NBFC-MFI registered with the RBI under the provisions of the RBI Act, 1934;
(v) NBFC-IFC registered with the RBI under the provisions of the RBI Act, 1934;
(vi) IDF-NBFC registered with the RBI under the provisions of the RBI Act, 1934;
(vii) HFC registered with the RBI under the provisions of the NHB Act, 1987;
1[Provided that, paragraphs 6 through 8 of these Directions shall be applicable exclusively
to ‘Notified NBFCs’ as defined in Chapter III - ‘Credit Risk Evaluation’ of these Directions.]
(2) 2[*****]
(3) These Directions are not applicable for the following:
(i) MGC registered with RBI under the scheme of Registration of Mortgage Guarantee
Companies;
(ii) NBFC-P2P registered with the RBI under the provisions of the RBI Act, 1934;
(iii) NBFC-AA registered with the RBI under the provisions of the RBI Act, 1934;
(iv) CIC registered with the RBI under the provisions of the RBI Act, 1934;
(v) SPDs registered with the RBI as NBFCs under the provisions of the RBI Act, 1934;
(vi) NOFHC registered with the RBI as NBFC under the provisions of the RBI Act,
1934.
(vii) 3[NBFC holding Certificate of Registration as ‘Type I NBFC’], and
(viii) ‘NBFCs-BL having customer interface but not availing public funds’.
Note: The applicability under these Directions is in line with the regulatory structure for
1Inserted with effect from April 01, 2026 vide Reserve Bank of India (Non-Banking Financial Companies – Credit Risk
Management) – Amendment Directions, 2026 dated January 05, 2026.
2Deleted with effect from April 01, 2026 vide Reserve Bank of India (Non-Banking Financial Companies – Credit Risk
Management) – Amendment Directions, 2026 dated January 05, 2026.
3 Substituted with effect from July 01, 2026 vide Reserve Bank of India (Non-Banking Financial Companies –
Registration, Exemptions and Framework for Scale Based Regulation) Amendment Directions, 2026 dated April 29,
2026
3

NBFCs as set out in Reserve Bank of India (Non-Banking Financial Companies –
Registration, Exemptions and Framework for Scale Based Regulation) Directions, 2025.
C. Definitions
4. (1) In these Directions, unless the context otherwise requires,
(i) 'Credit Default Swap (CDS)' shall mean a bilateral derivative contract on one or
more reference assets in which the protection buyer pays a fee through the life of
the contract in return for a credit event payment by the protection seller following
a credit event of the reference entities.
4[(ia) ‘Committee on lending to related parties’ shall mean a committee of the Board of
the NBFC entrusted with sanctioning of loans to related parties. NBFCs may also
identify any existing Committee, other than the Audit Committee, for this purpose.
(ib) ‘Contract or arrangement’ shall have the same meaning as specified in Section
188(1)(a) to (g) of the Companies Act, 2013.
(ic) ‘Control’ shall have the same meaning as assigned to it under Section 2(27) of the
Companies Act, 2013.]
(ii) ‘Credit event payment’ shall mean the amount which is payable by the credit
protection seller to the credit protection buyer under the terms of the credit
derivative contract following the occurrence of a credit event. The payment shall
be only in the form of physical settlement (payment of par in exchange for physical
delivery of a deliverable obligation).
(iii) ‘Deliverable asset / obligation’ shall mean any obligation (as per Master Direction
– Reserve Bank of India (Credit Derivatives) Directions, 2022) of the reference
entity which shall be delivered, under the terms of the contract, if a credit event
4Inserted with effect from April 01, 2026 vide Reserve Bank of India (Non-Banking Financial Companies – Credit Risk
Management) – Amendment Directions, 2026 dated January 05, 2026.
4

occurs. (Assets under this clause will rank at least pari-passu or junior to the
underlying obligation).
5[(iiia) ‘Director of an NBFC or any other entity’ shall mean a director appointed/elected
to the Board of the entity.
(iiib) ‘Entity’ in the context of a ‘related party’ shall mean a ‘person’ other than an individual
and a Hindu Undivided Family.
(iiic) ‘Key Managerial Personnel (KMP)’ of a NBFC shall have the same meaning as
defined in Section 2(51) of the Companies Act, 2013.
(iiid) ‘Lending’ in the context of a ‘related party’ shall mean extending funded or/ and non-
fund-based credit facilities to related parties. While investments in debt instruments
of related parties shall be covered for this purpose, equity investments shall be
excluded.]
(iv) 'Major shareholder' shall mean a person holding 10 per cent or more of the paid-
up share capital or ₹5 crore in paid-up shares, whichever is less.
6[(iva) ‘Person’ shall have the same meaning as assigned to it under Section 3 (23) of
Part I of Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code (IBC), 2016.
(ivb) ‘Personal Loans’ shall have the same meaning as defined under Banking Statistics
(Harmonised Definitions). However, for these Directions, personal loans shall
exclude loans for investments in financial assets.
(ivc) ‘Promoter’ shall have the same meaning as assigned to it under Section 2(69) of the
Companies Act, 2013.]
5Inserted with effect from April 01, 2026 vide Reserve Bank of India (Non-Banking Financial Companies – Credit Risk
Management) – Amendment Directions, 2026 dated January 05, 2026.
6Inserted with effect from April 01, 2026 vide Reserve Bank of India (Non-Banking Financial Companies – Credit Risk
Management) – Amendment Directions, 2026 dated January 05, 2026.
5

(v) ‘Reference obligation’ shall mean the obligation (as per Master Direction – Reserve
Bank of India (Credit Derivatives) Directions, 2022) used to calculate the amount
payable when a credit event occurs under the terms of a credit derivative contract.
[A reference obligation is relevant for obligations that are to be cash settled (on a
par-less-recovery basis)].
7[(va) ‘Related Party’ with respect to a NBFC shall mean a related person, or any of the
following entities:
(a) where a related person is a partner, manager, KMP, director or a promoter; or
(b) where a related person is a shareholder with more than ten per cent of paid-up
equity share capital; or
(c) where a related person is having control, whether singly or jointly with another
person; or
(d) where a related person controls more than twenty per cent of voting rights on
account of ownership or through a voting agreement or through any other
arrangement; or
(e) where a related person has the power to nominate a director to its Board; or
(f) which is accustomed to act on the advice, direction, or instruction of a related
person; or
(g) where a related person is a guarantor or a surety; or
(h) where a related person is a trustee or an author or a beneficiary and where the
entity is in the form of a private trust; or
(i) which is related to the related person as a subsidiary or a parent company or a
holding company or an associate or a joint venture.
Provided that, nothing sub-clause (e) above shall apply in cases where the authority to
nominate a director arises exclusively from a lending or financing arrangement.
7Inserted with effect from April 01, 2026 vide Reserve Bank of India (Non-Banking Financial Companies – Credit Risk
Management) – Amendment Directions, 2026 dated January 05, 2026
6

Provided further that, nothing in sub-clause (f) above shall apply to the advice, directions
or instructions given in a professional capacity.
Provided further that, Government of India / State Government-owned or controlled
entities shall not be treated as related parties to a government-owned NBFC just by virtue
of the fact that the Government has the common ownership or control of such entities.
(vb) ‘Related Person’ with respect to a NBFC shall mean a person, and the relatives of
such a person, where the person:
(a) is either a promoter, or a director, or a KMP of the NBFC; or
(b) owns more than five per cent of paid-up equity share capital of the NBFC or can,
either singly or jointly, exercise more than five per cent of the voting rights of the
NBFC on account of either ownership or voting agreement or through
shareholders’ agreement or through any other arrangement; or
(c) can, through an agreement with the NBFC, nominate a director to its Board; or
(d) is either singly or jointly, in control of the NBFC.]
(vi) ‘Relative’ shall have the same meaning as assigned to it under Clause (77) of
Section 2 of the Companies Act, 2013 8[ and rules framed therein].
(vii) 9[*****]
10[(viia) ‘Specified employees’ mean all employees of a NBFC who are positioned upto
two levels below the Board and any employee designated as such as per the
NBFC’s policy.]
(viii) ‘Underlying asset / obligation’ shall mean the asset/obligation which a protection
buyer is seeking to hedge.
8Inserted with effect from April 01, 2026 vide Reserve Bank of India (Non-Banking Financial Companies – Credit Risk
Management) – Amendment Directions, 2026 dated January 05, 2026.
9Deleted with effect from April 01, 2026 vide Reserve Bank of India (Non-Banking Financial Companies – Credit Risk
Management) – Amendment Directions, 2026 dated January 05, 2026.
10Inserted with effect from April 01, 2026 vide Reserve Bank of India (Non-Banking Financial Companies – Credit Risk
Management) – Amendment Directions, 2026 dated January 05, 2026.
7

(2) All other expressions unless defined herein shall have the same meanings as have
been assigned to them under the Banking Regulation Act, 1949, or the Reserve Bank of
India Act, 1934 and rules / regulations made thereunder, or any statutory modification or
re-enactment thereto or in other relevant regulations issued by the Reserve Bank, or
Glossary of Terms published by Reserve Bank or as used in commercial parlance, as the
case may be.
8

Chapter II - Board Approved Policies
5. An NBFC shall put in place Board approved policies covering, inter alia, the areas
specified in subsequent chapters of these Directions, to the extent such activities
are undertaken by it.
9

Chapter III - Credit Risk Evaluation
6. Notified NBFCs shall carry out their independent and objective credit appraisal in
all cases of lending and must not depend on credit appraisal reports prepared by
outside consultants, especially the in-house consultants of the borrowing entity.
They shall carry out sensitivity tests / scenario analysis, especially for infrastructure
projects, which shall, inter alia, include project delays and cost overruns. This will
aid in taking a view on viability of the project at the time of deciding Corrective
Action Plan (CAP). NBFCs shall ascertain the source and quality of equity capital
brought in by the promoters / shareholders. Multiple leveraging, especially, in
infrastructure projects, is a matter of concern as it effectively camouflages the
financial ratios such as Debt / Equity ratio, leading to adverse selection of the
borrowers. Therefore, NBFCs shall ensure at the time of credit appraisal that debt
of the parent company is not infused as equity capital of the subsidiary / SPV.
7. While carrying out the credit appraisal, notified NBFCs shall verify as to whether
the names of any of the directors of the companies appear in the list of defaulters
by way of reference to DIN / PAN etc. Further, in case of any doubt arising on
account of identical names, NBFCs shall use independent sources for confirmation
of the identity of directors rather than seeking declaration from the borrowing
company.
8. In addition to the above, notified NBFCs shall with a view to ensuring proper end-
use of funds and preventing diversion / siphoning of funds by the borrowers,
NBFCs could consider engaging their own auditors for such specific certification
purpose without relying on certification given by borrower's auditors. However, this
cannot substitute NBFC's basic minimum own diligence in the matter.
Explanation: For the purpose of this Chapter, ‘Notified NBFCs’ shall mean NBFC-
Factors, NBFC-D and non-deposit taking NBFCs of asset size of ₹500 crore and
above.
10

11[8A. Credit assessments carried out by a NBFC shall suitably factor in the possible
impact of calamities on borrowers who may be impacted by such events.]
11 Inserted with effect from July 01, 2026 vide Reserve Bank of India (Non-Banking Financial Companies – Credit Risk
Management) Second Amendment Directions, 2026 dated April 29, 2026.
11

Chapter IV - Regulatory Restrictions
A. 12[Lending to Related Parties]
9. 13[*****
10. *****
11. *****
12. *****
13. *****]
14[A.3 General Principles on Lending to Related Parties
13A. This Section sets out general principles and procedures to be followed for prudent
risk management of loan to related parties.
A.3.1 Provisions in the Credit Policy
13B. The Board shall have the overall responsibility of ensuring that suitable
mechanisms are put in place for implementation of the policy on lending to related
parties by the NBFC.
13C. The credit policy (hereinafter called the policy) of a NBFC, as required in terms of
the extant directions, shall contain specific provisions relating to ‘lending to related
parties’ in accordance with the provisions of these Directions. The policy shall
prescribe, inter alia, additional safeguards to address the risks emanating from
lending to related parties.
13D. The policy shall also have specific provisions for lending to ‘Specified employees’
of the NBFC and their relatives.
12Substituted with effect from April 01, 2026 vide Reserve Bank of India (Non-Banking Financial Companies – Credit
Risk Management) – Amendment Directions, 2026 dated January 05, 2026.
13Deleted with effect from April 01, 2026 vide Reserve Bank of India (Non-Banking Financial Companies – Credit Risk
Management) – Amendment Directions, 2026 dated January 05, 2026.
14Inserted with effect from April 01, 2026 vide Reserve Bank of India (Non-Banking Financial Companies – Credit Risk
Management) – Amendment Directions, 2026 dated January 05, 2026.
12

13E. Further, the policy shall, as a part of the whistleblowing mechanism, encourage
employees to communicate confidentially and without the risk of reprisal, legitimate
concerns about irregular, unethical, or questionable loans to related parties; and
eliminate quid pro quo arrangements, if any.
13F. The policy shall specify aggregate limits for loans towards related parties. Within
this aggregate limit, there shall be sub-limits for loans to a single related party and
a group of related parties. These limits shall be within the extant prudential
exposure limits prescribed by the Reserve Bank.
A.3.2 Materiality Threshold
13G. Credit Facilities to related parties can be extended by an NBFC in terms of their
credit policy. However, such loans, including personal loans to directors or a KMP,
shall be subject to a materiality threshold as per the credit policy, which shall not
be higher than the following ceilings:
Category of NBFCs Materiality Threshold
Upper Layer and Top Layer ₹10 crore
Middle Layer ₹5 crore
Base Layer ₹1 crore
Layer of the NBFC shall be based on the last audited balance sheet.
For loans, materiality threshold shall apply at individual transaction level.
13H. Materiality thresholds may vary for different categories of loans to related parties
and borrowers subject to ceilings prescribed above.
13I. All loans above the prescribed materiality threshold shall be sanctioned by the
Board of the NBFC. However, a NBFC at its discretion, may delegate the above
powers of lending beyond the materiality threshold to a Committee of the Board
(hereafter called Committee) other than the Audit Committee of the Board. As
regards loans below the materiality threshold, the same can be sanctioned by
appropriate authority in terms of powers delegated to them.
13

A.3.3 Recusal of Interested Parties
13J. Directors, KMP, or Specified employees shall recuse themselves from deliberations
and decision on loan proposals, or contracts and arrangements, involving
themselves or their related parties. Such recusal shall also extend to deliberations
and decisions relating to any subsequent material changes to the terms of such
loans, including one-time settlements, write-offs, waivers, enforcement of security,
implementation of resolution plans, etc.
A.4 Monitoring of Loans to Related Parties
13K. A NBFC shall put in place a suitable mechanism for maintaining and periodically
updating the list of all the related persons, and the related parties thereof, as well
as the loans sanctioned by the bank to such related persons and related parties.
13L. Credit facilities sanctioned to 'specified employees’ and their relatives shall be
reported to the Board on an annual basis.
13M. Periodic reviews shall be conducted at quarterly or shorter intervals by internal
auditors to check, inter alia, whether guidelines and procedures in relation to loans
to related parties are being adhered to or not.
13N. Any deviation from the policy relating to lending to related parties and reasons
therefor shall be reported to the Audit Committee of the Board or to the Board,
where Audit Committees are not formed.
13O. Any product, entity or structure formed with the objective of circumventing these
Directions through various means, such as reciprocal lending or quid pro quo
arrangements, and identified as such by the auditors of the NBFC or by the
supervisory authority and investigating agencies shall always be treated as lending
to related party.
A.5 Others
13P. In addition to the provisions of these Directions on lending to related parties, listed
NBFCs shall continue to comply with the applicable provisions of the Securities
14

and Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements)
Regulations, 2015, as amended from time to time.
A.6 Enforcement Actions
13Q. Any non-compliance with and circumvention of these Directions shall result in
imposition of supervisory and enforcement actions as deemed appropriate by the
Reserve Bank. These penalties may include imposition of monetary penalty,
requirement of full provisioning, directions to conduct staff accountability exercises,
forensic audits, and restrictions or any other supervisory and enforcement actions
as deemed fit.]
B. Loans against NBFC’s own shares
14. An NBFC shall not lend against its own shares.
C. Loans against NBFC’s own Debentures
15. An NBFC shall not extend loans against the security of its own debentures (issued
either by way of private placement or public issue). Tax exempt bonds offered by an
NBFC shall be exempted from the applicability of the instruction.
15

Chapter V - Regulations on Credit Default Swaps (CDS) – NBFCs as Users
16. An NBFC shall only participate in CDS market as a user. The NBFC shall, as a
user, buy credit protection only to hedge their credit risk on corporate bonds they
hold. It shall not sell protection and hence shall not enter into short positions in the
CDS contracts. It shall exit their bought CDS positions by unwinding them with the
original counterparty or by assigning them in favour of buyer of the underlying bond
or by assigning the contract to any other eligible market participant through
novation (only in case of events such as winding-up or mergers / acquisitions).
17. Apart from complying with all the provisions above, an NBFC shall, as a user, also
ensure that the guidelines including operational requirements for CDS as provided
below, are fulfilled by it.
(1) Operational requirements for CDS
(i) A CDS contract shall represent a direct claim on the protection seller
and shall be explicitly referenced to specific exposure, so that the
extent of the cover is clearly defined and incontrovertible.
(ii) Other than non-payment by a protection buyer of premium in respect
of the credit protection contract, it shall be irrevocable.
(iii) There shall be no clause in the contract that shall allow the protection
seller unilaterally to cancel the credit cover or that would increase the
effective cost of cover as a result of deteriorating credit quality in the
hedged exposure.
(iv) The CDS contract shall be unconditional; there shall be no clause in
the protection contract outside the direct control of the NBFC that
could prevent the protection seller from being obliged to pay out in a
timely manner in the event that the original counterparty fails to make
the payment(s) due.
(v) The credit events specified by the contracting parties shall at a
minimum cover:
16

(a) failure to pay the amounts due under terms of the underlying
obligation that are in effect at the time of such failure (with a grace
period that is closely in line with the grace period in the underlying
obligation);
(b) bankruptcy, insolvency or inability of the obligor to pay its debts,
or its failure or admission in writing of its inability generally to pay its
debts as they become due, and analogous events; and
(c) restructuring of the underlying obligation involving forgiveness or
postponement of principal, interest or fees that results in a credit loss
event;
(d) when the restructuring of the underlying obligation is not covered
by the CDS, but the other requirements in paragraph 17 are met,
partial recognition of the CDS shall be allowed. If the amount of the
CDS is less than or equal to the amount of the underlying obligation,
60 per cent of the amount of the hedge can be recognised as
covered. If the amount of the CDS is larger than that of the underlying
obligation, then the amount of eligible hedge is capped at 60 per cent
of the amount of the underlying obligation.
(vi) If the CDS specifies deliverable obligations that are different from the
underlying obligation, the resultant asset mismatch shall be
governed under paragraph 17(1)(x).
(vii) The CDS shall not terminate prior to expiration of any grace period
required for a default on the underlying obligation to occur as a result
of a failure to pay.
Definition of maturity – the maturity of the underlying exposure and
the maturity of the hedge shall both be defined conservatively. The
effective maturity of the underlying shall be gauged as the longest
possible remaining time before the counterparty is scheduled to fulfil
its obligation, taking into account any applicable grace period.
(viii) If the protection buyer’s right / ability to transfer the underlying
obligation to the protection seller is required for settlement, the terms
17

of the underlying obligation shall provide that any required consent
to such transfer may not be unreasonably withheld.
(ix) The identity of the parties responsible for determining whether a
credit event has occurred shall be clearly defined. This determination
shall not be the sole responsibility of the protection seller. The
protection buyer shall have the right / ability to inform the protection
seller of the occurrence of a credit event.
(x) A mismatch between the underlying obligation and the reference
obligation or deliverable obligation is permissible, if (a) the reference
obligation or deliverable obligation ranks pari-passu with or is junior
to the underlying obligation, and (b) the underlying obligation and
reference obligation or deliverable obligation share the same obligor
(i.e., the same legal entity) and legally enforceable cross default or
cross acceleration clauses are in place.
(xi) A mismatch between the underlying obligation and the obligation
used for purposes of determining whether a credit event has
occurred is permissible if (a) the latter obligation ranks pari-passu
with or is junior to the underlying obligation, and (b) the underlying
obligation and reference obligation share the same obligor (i.e., the
same legal entity) and legally enforceable cross-default or cross
acceleration clauses are in place.
(2) Treatment of exposures below materiality thresholds
Materiality thresholds on payments below which no payment is made in the
event of loss as per the CDS contract, are equivalent to retained first loss
positions and shall be assigned risk weight of 667 per cent (1/0.15*100 as
minimum CRAR requirement for NBFCs is 15 per cent) for capital adequacy
purpose by the protection buyer.
(3) Prudential treatment post-credit event
In case the credit event payment is not received within the period as
stipulated in the CDS contract, the NBFC shall ignore the credit protection
18

of the CDS and reckon the credit exposure on the underlying asset and
maintain appropriate level of capital and provisions as warranted for the
exposure. On receipt of the credit event payment, (a) the underlying asset
shall be removed from the books if it has been delivered to the protection
seller; or (b) the book value of the underlying asset shall be reduced to the
extent of credit event payment received if the credit event payment does not
fully cover the book value of the underlying asset and appropriate provisions
shall be maintained for the reduced value.
(4) Capital Adequacy
In terms of these Directions, risk weights for credit risk for corporate bonds
held by an NBFC is 100 per cent. A CDS contract creates a counterparty
exposure on the protection seller on account of the credit event payment.
In case of hedging of the cash position by CDS, the exposure shall be
reckoned on the protection seller subject to the conditions mentioned in
paragraph 17(5) below. An NBFC shall calculate the counterparty credit risk
charge for all bought CDS positions as the sum of the current mark-to-
market value, (if positive and zero, if MTM is negative) and the potential
future exposure.
(5) Treatment of exposure to the protection seller
(i) Exposure to the underlying asset in respect of the hedged exposure shall
be deemed to have been substituted by exposure to the protection seller, if
the following conditions are satisfied:
(a) Operational requirements mentioned in paragraph 17 are
satisfied
(b) There is no maturity mismatch between the underlying asset and
the deliverable obligation. If this condition is not satisfied, then the
amount of credit protection to be recognised shall be computed as
indicated in paragraph 17(5)(v) below. In all other cases the
exposure shall be deemed to be on the underlying asset.
(ii) Risk weights as applicable to the underlying assets shall be applied for
the unprotected portion of the exposure. The amount of credit protection
19

shall be adjusted if there are any mismatches between the underlying asset
/ obligation and the deliverable asset / obligation with regard to asset or
maturity. These are dealt with in detail in the following paragraphs.
(iii) Mismatches
The amount of credit protection shall be adjusted if there are any
mismatches between the underlying asset / obligation and the deliverable
asset / obligation with regard to asset or maturity.
(a) Asset mismatches: Asset mismatch will arise if the underlying asset
is different from the deliverable obligation. Protection shall be reckoned
as available to the NBFC only if the mismatched assets meet the
requirements specified in paragraph 17 (1)(x) above.
(b) Maturity mismatches: An NBFC shall be eligible to reckon the amount
of protection if the maturity of the credit derivative contract were to be
equal to the maturity of the underlying asset. If, however, the maturity of
the CDS contract is less than the maturity of the underlying asset, then it
shall be construed as a maturity mismatch. In case of maturity mismatch
the amount of protection shall be determined in the following manner:
• If the residual maturity of the credit derivative product is less than
three months no protection shall be recognized.
• If the residual maturity of the credit derivative contract is three
months or more
protection proportional to the period for which it is available shall be
recognised.
When there is a maturity mismatch the following adjustment shall be
applied. Pa = P x (t-.25) ÷ (T- .25)
Where: Pa = value of the credit protection adjusted for maturity
mismatch
P = credit protection
t = min (T, residual maturity of the credit protection arrangement)
expressed in years
20

T = min (5, residual maturity of the underlying exposure) expressed
in years
Illustration: Suppose the underlying asset is a corporate bond of
Face Value of ₹100 where the residual maturity is of 5 years and the
residual maturity of the CDS is 4 years. The amount of credit
protection is computed as under:
100 * {(4-.25) ÷ (5-.25)} = 100*(3.75 ÷ 4.75) = 78.95
• Once the residual maturity of the CDS contract reaches three
months, protection ceases to be recognised.
(iv) An NBFC as a user shall adhere to all the criteria required for
transferring the exposures fully to the protection seller in terms of paragraph
17(1) above on an ongoing basis so as to qualify for exposure relief on the
underlying asset. In case any of these criteria are not met subsequently, the
NBFC shall have to reckon the exposure on the underlying asset. Therefore,
an NBFC shall restrict the total exposure to an obligor including that covered
by way of CDS within an internal exposure ceiling considered appropriate
by the Board of the NBFC in such a way that it shall not breach the single /
group borrower exposure limit prescribed by the Reserve Bank. In case of
the event of any breach in the single / group borrower exposure limit, the
entire exposure in excess of the limit will be risk weighted at 667 per cent.
In order to ensure that consequent upon such a treatment, an NBFC shall
not breach the minimum capital requirement prescribed by the Reserve
Bank, it shall keep sufficient cushion in capital in case it assumes exposures
in excess of normal exposure limit.
(v) No netting of positive and negative marked-to-market values of the
contracts with the same counterparty shall be allowed for the purpose of
complying with the exposure norms.
(6) General Provisions Requirements
For the CDS positions of an NBFCs, it shall hold general provisions for
gross positive marked-to-market values of the CDS contracts
21

(7) Reporting Requirement:
On a quarterly basis, an NBFC shall report ‘total exposure’ in all cases
where it has assumed exposures against borrowers in excess of the normal
single / group exposure limits due to the credit protections obtained by them
through CDS, guarantees or any other permitted instruments of credit risk
transfer, to the Regional Office of Department of Supervision where they
are registered.
(8) An NBFC shall also disclose in their notes to accounts of balance sheet the
details as specified under Reserve Bank of India (Non-Banking Financial
Companies – Financial Statements: Presentation and Disclosures)
Directions, 2025.
22

Chapter VI - Legal Entity Identifier (LEI) for Borrowers
18. The Legal Entity Identifier code is conceived as a key measure to improve the
quality and accuracy of financial data systems for better risk management post the
Global Financial Crisis. LEI is a 20-digit unique code to identify parties to financial
transactions worldwide.
19. An NBFC shall ensure that non-individual borrowers with aggregate exposure of
₹5 crore and above from banks (Scheduled Commercial Banks (excluding
Regional Rural Banks), Local Area Banks, Small Finance Banks, and Primary
(Urban) Co-operative Banks) and Financial Institutions (All India Financial
Institutions and NBFCs (including HFCs)) obtain LEI codes.
Explanation: 'Exposure' for this purpose shall include all fund based and non-fund
based (credit as well as investment) exposure of banks / FIs to the borrower.
Aggregate sanctioned limit or outstanding balance, whichever is higher, shall be
reckoned for the purpose. Lenders shall ascertain the position of aggregate
exposure based on information available either with them, or Central Repository
of Information on Large Credits (CRILC) database or declaration obtained from
the borrower
20. Borrowers who fail to obtain LEI codes from an authorised Local Operating Unit
(LOU) shall not be sanctioned any new exposure nor shall they be granted renewal
/ enhancement of any existing exposure. However, Departments / Agencies of
Central and State Governments (not Public Sector Undertakings registered under
Companies Act or established as Corporation under the relevant statute) shall be
exempted from this provision.
Explanation: A government agency is an administrative set up of the government,
responsible for certain area(s) of activity, e.g., ISRO, BIS, DGCA, etc.
21. An NBFC shall encourage large borrowers to obtain LEI for their parent entity as
well as all subsidiaries and associates.
22. Entities can obtain LEI from any of the LOUs accredited by the Global Legal Entity
23

Identifier Foundation (GLEIF) – the entity tasked to support the implementation
and use of LEI. In India, LEI code may be obtained from Legal Entity Identifier India
Ltd (LEIIL), a subsidiary of the Clearing Corporation of India Limited (CCIL), which
has been recognised by the Reserve Bank as issuer of LEI under the Payment
and Settlement Systems Act, 2007 and is accredited by the GLEIF as the Local
Operating Unit (LOU) in India for issuance and management of LEI.
23. The rules, procedure and documentation requirements maybe ascertained from
LEIIL.
24. After obtaining LEI code, an NBFC shall also ensure that borrowers renew the
codes as per GLEIF guidelines.
24

Chapter VII - Filing of Security Interest relating to Immovable (other than equitable
mortgage), Movable, and Intangible Assets in CERSAI
25. The Central Registry of Securitisation Asset Reconstruction and Security Interest
of India (CERSAI), a Government Company licensed under section 8 of the
Companies Act 2013 has been incorporated for the purpose of operating and
maintaining the Central Registry under the provisions of the Securitisation and
Reconstruction of Financial Assets and Enforcement of Security Interest Act, 2002
(SARFAESI Act).
26. It is to be noted that initially transactions relating to securitization and
reconstruction of financial assets and those relating to mortgage by deposit of title
deeds to secure any loan or advances granted by banks and financial institutions,
as defined under the SARFAESI Act, are to be registered in the Central Registry.
The records maintained by the Central Registry will be available for search by any
lender or any other person desirous of dealing with the property. Availability of
such records would prevent frauds involving multiple lending against the security
of same property as well as fraudulent sale of property without disclosing the
security interest over such property. It may be noted that under the provisions of
Section 23 of the SARFAESI Act, every transaction of security interest is required
to be filed with the Registry
27. The Government of India has issued a Gazette Notification dated January 22, 2016
for filing of the following types of security interest on the CERSAI portal:
(1) Particulars of creation, modification or satisfaction of security interest in
immovable property by mortgage other than mortgage by deposit of title deeds.
(2) Particulars of creation, modification or satisfaction of security interest in
hypothecation of plant and machinery, stocks, debts including book debts or
receivables, whether existing or future.
(3) Particulars of creation, modification or satisfaction of security interest in
intangible assets, being know how, patent, copyright, trademark, license, franchise
or any other business or commercial right of similar nature.
25

(4) Particulars of creation, modification or satisfaction of security interest in any
‘under construction’ residential or commercial or a part thereof by an agreement or
instrument other than mortgage.
28. An NBFC is advised to file the charges relating to all current transactions with
CERSAI on an ongoing basis.
26

Chapter VIII - Repeal and other provisions
A. Repeal and saving
29. With the issue of these Directions, the existing Directions, instructions, and
guidelines relating to Credit Risk Management as applicable to Non-Banking
Financial Companies, stand repealed, as communicated vide circular
DOR.RRC.REC.302/33-01-010/2025-26 dated November 28, 2025. The
Directions, instructions and guidelines already repealed shall continue to remain
repealed.
30. Notwithstanding such repeal, any action taken or purported to have been taken, or
initiated under the repealed Directions, instructions, or guidelines shall continue to
be governed by the provisions thereof. All approvals or acknowledgments granted
under these repealed lists shall be deemed as governed by these Directions.
Further, the repeal of these directions, instructions, or guidelines shall not in any
way prejudicially affect:
(1) any right, obligation or liability acquired, accrued, or incurred thereunder;
(2) any, penalty, forfeiture, or punishment incurred in respect of any
contravention committed thereunder;
(3) any investigation, legal proceeding, or remedy in respect of any such right,
privilege, obligation, liability, penalty, forfeiture, or punishment as aforesaid;
and any such investigation, legal proceedings or remedy may be instituted,
continued, or enforced and any such penalty, forfeiture or punishment may
be imposed as if those directions, instructions, or guidelines had not been
repealed.
B. Application of other laws not barred
31. The provisions of these Directions shall be in addition to, and not in derogation of
the provisions of any other laws, rules, regulations, or directions, for the time being
in force.
27

C. Interpretations
32. For the purpose of giving effect to the provisions of these Directions or in order to
remove any difficulties in the application or interpretation of the provisions of these
Directions, the RBI may, if it considers necessary, issue necessary clarifications in
respect of any matter covered herein and the interpretation of any provision of
these Directions given by the RBI shall be final and binding.
(Vaibhav Chaturvedi)
Chief General Manager
28

Annex I
Loans to Directors, Senior Officers and relatives of Directors
(₹ crore)
Current Year Previous Year
Directors and their relatives
Entities associated with directors and their
relatives
Senior Officers and their relatives
29