भारतीय �रज़वर् बैंक
RESERVE BANK OF INDIA
RBI/DoR/2025-26/355
DoR.LRG.REC.No.274/13-10-004/2025-26 November 28, 2025
Reserve Bank of India (Non-Banking Financial Companies – Asset Liability
Management) Directions, 2025 (Updated as on July 01, 2026)
Table of Contents
Chapter I – Preliminary ............................................................................................................ 3
A. Short Title and Commencement ................................................................................... 3
B. Applicability ................................................................................................................... 3
C. Definitions ...................................................................................................................... 4
Chapter II – Liquidity Risk Management Framework ............................................................. 6
A. Role of the Board .......................................................................................................... 6
A.1 Approval of policies, limits, and reviews .................................................................. 6
B. Asset Liability Management Governance .................................................................... 6
C. ALM Information Systems ............................................................................................ 7
D. ALM Organisation.......................................................................................................... 7
E. Liquidity Risk Management .......................................................................................... 8
F. Maturity Profiling ..........................................................................................................10
G. Liquidity Mismatch Management ................................................................................12
H. Liquidity Risk Measurement – Stock Approach .........................................................13
I. Currency Risk Management ........................................................................................13
J. Interest Rate Risk (IRR) Management .........................................................................13
K. Earnings Perspective: TGA .........................................................................................14
L. Regulatory Reporting and Periodicity .........................................................................16
Chapter III – Liquidity Coverage Ratio ...................................................................................17
A. Liquidity Coverage Ratio (LCR) ...................................................................................17
B. High Quality Liquid Assets (HQLA) .............................................................................18
C. Classification of assets for HQLA Computation ........................................................18
D. Total net cash outflows ................................................................................................21
E. Computation of Net cash outflows ..............................................................................23

F. LCR Disclosure .............................................................................................................24
Chapter IV – Repeal and Other Provisions ............................................................................25
A. Repeal and Saving........................................................................................................25
B. Application of other laws not barred...........................................................................25
C. Interpretations ..............................................................................................................26
Annex – I: Public disclosure on liquidity risk ....................................................................27
Annex – II: Maturity Profile – Liquidity ...............................................................................28
Annex – III: Interest Rate Sensitivity ..................................................................................33
Annex – IV: Formats for Returns ........................................................................................36
2

In exercise of the powers conferred by Section 45L of the Reserve Bank of
India Act, 1934, the Factoring Regulation Act, 2011, the National Housing Bank Act, 1987,
and all other provisions / laws enabling the Reserve Bank of India (‘RBI’) in this regard,
RBI being satisfied that it is necessary and expedient in the public interest so to do,
hereby, issues the Directions hereinafter specified.
Chapter I – Preliminary
A. Short Title and Commencement
1 These Directions shall be called the Reserve Bank of India (Non-Banking Financial
Companies – Asset Liability Management) Directions, 2025.
2 These Directions shall become effective from the date of issue.
B. Applicability
3 These Directions shall be applicable to following Non-Banking Financial Companies
(hereinafter collectively referred to as ‘NBFCs’ and individually as an ‘NBFC’), for all
layers unless specified otherwise:
(i) NBFC-D registered with the RBI under the provisions of the RBI Act, 1934;
(ii) NBFC-ICC registered with the RBI under the provisions of the RBI Act, 1934;
(iii) NBFC-Factor registered with the RBI under the provisions of the Factoring
Regulation Act, 2011;
(iv) NBFC-MFI registered with the RBI under the provisions of the RBI Act, 1934;
(v) NBFC-IFC registered with the RBI under the provisions of the RBI Act, 1934;
(vi) IDF-NBFC registered with the RBI under the provisions of the RBI Act, 1934;
and
(vii) HFC registered with the RBI under the provisions of the NHB Act, 1987;
4 These Directions, except Chapter III, shall be applicable to CICs registered with the
RBI under the provisions of the RBI Act, 1934.
5 These Directions are not applicable for the following Non-Banking Financial
Companies:
3

(i) MGC registered with RBI under the scheme of Registration of Mortgage
Guarantee Companies;
(ii) NBFC-P2P registered with the RBI under the provisions of the RBI Act, 1934;
(iii) NBFC-AA registered with the RBI under the provisions of the RBI Act, 1934;
(iv) SPD registered with the RBI as NBFCs under the provisions of the RBI Act,
1934;
(v) NOFHC registered with the RBI as NBFC under the provisions of the RBI Act,
1934;
(vi) 1[NBFC holding Certificate of Registration as ‘Type I NBFC’]; and
(vii) ‘NBFCs in Base layer having customer interface but not availing public funds’.
Note: The applicability under these Directions is in line with the regulatory structure
for NBFCs as set out in Reserve Bank of India (Non-Banking Financial Companies
– Registration, Exemptions and Framework for Scale Based Regulation) Directions,
2025.
C. Definitions
6 In these Directions, unless the context states otherwise, the terms herein shall bear
the meaning assigned to them below.
(1) ‘Defeasance Period’ means time taken to liquidate the investment position on
the basis of liquidity in the secondary market.
(2) ‘Interest Rate Risk’ is the risk where changes in market interest rates might
adversely affect NBFC’s financial condition.
(3) ‘Embedded Options’ means customers exercising their options for premature
closure of deposits and prepayment of loans and advances.
(4) ‘Gap Analysis’ means measurement of mismatches between rate sensitive
liabilities and rate sensitive assets including off-balance sheet positions
through a Gap Report generated by grouping rate sensitive liabilities, assets
and off-balance sheet positions into time buckets according to residual maturity
or next repricing period, whichever is earlier.
1 Substituted with effect from July 01, 2026 vide Reserve Bank of India (Non-Banking Financial Companies – Registration, Exemptions
and Framework for Scale Based Regulation) Amendment Directions, 2026 dated April 29, 2026.
4

(5) ‘Secured Funding’ means those liabilities and general obligations that are
collateralised by legal rights to specifically designated assets owned by the
borrowing institution.
(6) ‘Stress Test’ means evaluation of the financial position of a regulated entity
(RE) under a severe but plausible scenario to assist in decision making within
the RE.
(7) ‘Unencumbered’ means free of legal, regulatory, contractual, or other
restrictions on the ability of the NBFC to liquidate, sell, transfer, or assign an
asset.
(8) ‘Liquidity’ means NBFC’s capacity to fund the increase in assets and meet
both expected and unexpected cash and collateral obligations at reasonable
cost and without incurring unacceptable losses.
(9) ‘Liquidity Risk’ means inability of an NBFC to meet such obligations as they
become due without adversely affecting the NBFC’s financial condition.
Effective liquidity risk management helps ensure an NBFC’s ability to meet its
obligations as and when they fall due and reduces the probability of an adverse
situation developing.
7 All other expressions unless defined herein shall have the same meaning as have
been assigned to them under the BR Act, the RBI Act, rules / regulations made
thereunder, or any statutory modification, or re-enactment thereto or as used in
commercial parlance, as the case may be.
5

Chapter II – Liquidity Risk Management Framework
Provisions of this Chapter shall not apply to NBFCs having asset size less than ₹100
crore as per their last audited Balance Sheet. However, NBFCs that are exempt from the
provisions of this Chapter are encouraged to adopt these guidelines on a voluntary basis.
A. Role of the Board
8 The Board of Directors (Board) shall have the overall responsibility for the
implementation of ALM systems. It shall also be the duty of the Board to set up an
Asset Liability Management Committee (ALCO) headed by the CEO / MD or the
Executive Director (ED).
A.1 Approval of policies, limits, and reviews
9 The Board shall frame a liquidity risk management framework that ensures the
maintenance of adequate liquidity, including a cushion of unencumbered, high
quality liquid assets to withstand a range of stress events, including those involving
the loss or impairment of both unsecured and secured funding sources.
10 The Board shall approve the internally defined limits for certain critical ratios used
for liquidity risk management.
11 The Board / Management Committee shall approve the prudential limits on
individual Gaps for the prescribed maturity buckets for managing liquidity and
interest rate risks.
B. Asset Liability Management Governance
12 An NBFC shall establish an Asset Liability Management (ALM) system that offers a
comprehensive and dynamic framework for measuring, monitoring, and managing
liquidity, interest rate, equity, and foreign exchange risks. The system shall involve
the identification and assessment of various types of risks and enable dynamic
adjustment of balance sheet items (assets and liabilities) to manage these risks
effectively.
13 An NBFC shall implement the ALM system based on following three pillars:
(1) ALM Information Systems comprising:
(i) Management Information Systems (MIS); and
6

(ii) Information availability, accuracy, adequacy and expediency.
(2) ALM Organisation comprising:
(i) Structure and responsibilities; and
(ii) Level of top management involvement.
(3) ALM Process comprising:
(i) Liquidity risk management; and
(ii) Interest rate risk management.
C. ALM Information Systems
14 An NBFC shall put in place a Management Information System (MIS) that provides
timely and forward-looking information on the liquidity position of the NBFC and the
Group to the Board and ALCO, both under normal and stress situations. The MIS
shall be capable of furnishing more granular and time-sensitive information during
stress events.
15 An NBFC shall disclose, on a quarterly basis, the information specified in Annex-I,
on its official website. The same shall also be included as Notes to Accounts in the
Annual Financial Statements that enables market participants to make an informed
judgment about the soundness of its liquidity risk management framework and
liquidity position.
D. ALM Organisation
16 The overall responsibility for implementation of ALM systems shall rest with the
Board of an NBFC. In case of an NBFC having a Chief Risk Officer (CRO), the CRO
shall be involved in the process of identification, measurement, and mitigation of
liquidity risks.
17 An NBFC shall set up ALCO headed by the CEO / MD or the ED. The ALCO shall
include the Heads of Investment, Credit and Strategy, Treasury Risk Management,
and Economic Research and other members as deemed suitable. The ALCO shall
be responsible for ensuring adherence to the policies and limits set by the Board as
well as implementing the liquidity risk management strategy of the NBFC. The ALCO
shall also decide on the desired maturity profile and mix of incremental assets and
liabilities, sale of assets as a source of funding, the structure, responsibilities and
7

controls for managing liquidity risk, and overseeing the liquidity positions of all
branches.
18 The ALM Support Group consisting of the operating staff shall be responsible for
analysing, monitoring, and reporting the liquidity risk profile to the ALCO. Such
support groups will be constituted depending on the size and complexity of liquidity
risk management in an NBFC.
19 An NBFC shall have appropriate internal controls, systems, and procedures to
ensure adherence to various liquidity risk management policies and procedures.
These internal controls shall be subjected to supervisory review. Management
should ensure that an independent party regularly reviews and evaluates the various
components of the NBFC’s liquidity risk management process.
20 The policy note recorded by the NBFCs on treatment of the investment portfolio for
the purpose of ALM and approved by their Board / ALCO shall be forwarded to the
Regional Office of the Department of Supervision (DoS) of the Reserve Bank under
whose jurisdiction the registered office of the company is located.
E. Liquidity Risk Management
21 The Board of the NBFC shall frame a liquidity risk management framework that
ensures the maintenance of adequate liquidity, including a cushion of
unencumbered, high quality liquid assets to withstand a range of stress events,
including those involving the loss or impairment of both unsecured and secured
funding sources.
22 The framework shall clearly mention the entity-level liquidity risk tolerance; funding
strategies; prudential limits; system for measuring, assessing and reporting /
reviewing liquidity; framework for stress testing; liquidity planning under alternative
scenarios / formal contingent funding plan; nature and frequency of management
reporting; and periodical review of assumptions used in liquidity projection.
23 An NBFC shall have a sound process for identifying, measuring, monitoring, and
controlling liquidity risk. It should clearly articulate a liquidity risk tolerance that is
appropriate for its business strategy and its role in the financial system. The Top
Management of the NBFC shall develop a strategy to manage liquidity risk in
8

accordance with such risk tolerance and ensure that the NBFC maintains sufficient
liquidity.
24 An NBFC shall endeavour to develop a process to quantify liquidity costs and
benefits so that the same may be incorporated in the internal product pricing,
performance measurement, and new product approval process for all material
business lines, products, and activities.
25 The process for identification, measurement, monitoring, and controlling liquidity risk
should include a robust framework for comprehensive projection of cash flows
arising from assets, liabilities, and off-balance sheet items over an appropriate set
of time horizons. An NBFC shall give particular importance to the management of
liquidity risks relating to off-balance sheet exposures on account of special purpose
vehicles, financial derivatives, guarantees, and commitments.
26 An NBFC shall establish a funding strategy that provides effective diversification in
the sources and tenor of funding. It shall maintain an ongoing presence in its chosen
funding markets and strong relationships with fund providers to promote effective
diversification of funding sources. An NBFC shall regularly assess its capacity to
raise funds quickly from different sources. Funding strategy shall also take into
account the qualitative dimension of the concentrated behaviour of deposit
withdrawal (for deposit taking NBFC) in typical market conditions and over-reliance
on other funding sources arising out of unique business model.
27 An NBFC shall actively manage its collateral positions, differentiating between
encumbered and unencumbered assets. It shall monitor the legal entity and physical
location where collateral is held and how it may be mobilised in a timely manner. An
NBFC shall have sufficient collateral to meet expected and unexpected borrowing
needs and potential increases in margin requirements over different timeframes.
28 An NBFC shall ensure that the stress testing forms an integral part of the overall
governance and liquidity risk management. An NBFC shall conduct stress tests on
regular basis for a variety of short-term and protracted NBFC-specific and market-
wide stress scenarios (individually and in combination). In designing liquidity stress
scenarios, the nature of the NBFC’s business, activities, and vulnerabilities shall be
9

taken into consideration so that the scenarios incorporate the major funding and
market liquidity risks to which the NBFC is exposed.
29 An NBFC shall formulate a contingency funding plan (CFP) for responding to severe
disruptions which may affect the NBFC’s ability to fund its activities in a timely
manner and at a reasonable cost. Contingency plans shall contain details of
available / potential contingency funding sources and the amount / estimated
amount which can be drawn from these sources, clear escalation / prioritisation
procedures detailing when and how each of the actions can and should be activated,
and the lead time needed to tap additional funds from each of the contingency
sources.
30 With a view to recognizing the likely increased risk arising due to Intra-Group
transactions and exposures, the Group Chief Financial officer (CFO) shall develop
and maintain liquidity management processes and funding programmes consistent
with the complexity, risk profile, and scope of operations of the companies in the
Group. The Group liquidity risk management processes and funding programmes
shall take into account lending, investment, and other activities, and ensure that
adequate liquidity is maintained at the Group head level and at each constituent
entity within the group. Processes and programmes shall fully incorporate real and
potential constraints, including legal and regulatory restrictions, on the transfer of
funds among these entities and between these entities and the principal.
F. Maturity Profiling
31 An NBFC shall adopt the maturity ladder approach as the standard tool for
measuring and managing net funding requirements. The NBFC shall calculate the
cumulative surplus or deficit of funds at selected maturity buckets to assess the
funding gaps and liquidity profile over varying time horizons.
32 An NBFC shall prepare a Maturity Profile to measure the future cash flows in
different time buckets, as per Annex-II. The time buckets shall be distributed as
under:
(1) 1 day to 7 days;
(2) 8 days to 14 days;
10

(3) 15 days to 30 / 31 days (one month);
(4) Over one month and upto 2 months;
(5) Over two months and upto 3 months;
(6) Over 3 months and upto 6 months;
(7) Over 6 months and upto 1 year;
(8) Over 1 year and upto 3 years;
(9) Over 3 years and upto 5 years; and
(10) Over 5 years
33 For an NBFC holding public deposit:
(1) Securities in their investment portfolio shall be broadly classified as ‘mandatory
securities' (under obligation of law) and other 'non-mandatory securities’;
(2) Surplus securities (held over and above the requirement), shall be categorised
as non-mandatory.
34 For an NBFC not holding public deposit, all investments in securities shall be
categorized as non-mandatory.
35 The maturity profiling of such securities shall be as under:
(1) Mandatory securities: Deposit taking NBFC shall be permitted to place the
mandatory securities in any time buckets as deemed suitable.
(2) Non-mandatory securities:
(i) The listed non-mandatory securities shall be placed in any of the "1 day to
7 days, 8 days to 14 days, 15 days to 30 / 31 days (One month)", Over one
month and upto 2 months", and "Over two months and upto 3 months"
buckets, depending upon the defeasance period proposed by the NBFC.
(ii) The unlisted non-mandatory securities (e.g., equity shares, securities
without a fixed term of maturity) shall be placed in the "Over 5 years"
buckets, whereas unlisted non-mandatory securities having a fixed term of
maturity may be placed in the relevant time bucket as per residual maturity.
36 The mandatory securities and listed securities shall be marked to market for the
purpose of the ALM system. Unlisted securities shall be valued as per the Reserve
11

Bank of India (Non-Banking Financial Companies - Classification, Valuation and
Operation of Investment Portfolio) Directions, 2025.
37 Alternatively, the NBFC may follow the concept of ‘Trading Book’ for maturity
profiling of their investment portfolio, which is as follows:
(1) The composition and volume are clearly defined;
(2) Maximum maturity / duration of the portfolio is restricted;
(3) The holding period does not exceed 90 days;
(4) Cut-loss limit prescribed; and
(5) Defeasance periods are prescribed (product-wise).
38 An NBFC which maintains such Trading Book and complies with the above criteria
shall show the trading securities under "1 day to 30 / 31 days (One month)", Over
one month and upto 2 months", and "Over two months and upto 3 months" buckets
on the basis of the defeasance periods. The Board / ALCO of the NBFC shall
approve the volume, composition, holding/ defeasance period, and cut loss of the
Trading Book. The remaining investments shall also be classified as short-term and
long-term investments as required under Reserve Bank of India (Non-Banking
Financial Companies - Classification, Valuation and Operation of Investment
Portfolio) Directions, 2025.
G. Liquidity Mismatch Management
39 Within each time bucket, an NBFC shall monitor mismatches arising from cash
inflows and outflows, including mismatches upto one year, which are early warning
signals of impending liquidity problems. The primary focus shall be on short-term
mismatches viz. 1-30 / 31 days. The net cumulative negative mismatches in the
Structural Liquidity Statement (SLS) (refer Annex IV) in the maturity buckets shall
not exceed 10 per cent in the 1-7 days bucket, 10 per cent in 8-14 days bucket, and
20 per cent in 15-30 days bucket, measured as percentage of cumulative cash
outflows in the respective time buckets.
40 An NBFC shall monitor its cumulative mismatches (running total) across all other
time buckets upto 1 year by establishing internal prudential limits with the approval
12

of the Board. It shall also adopt the above cumulative mismatch limits in the SLS for
consolidated operations.
41 The SLS shall be prepared by placing all cash inflows and outflows in the maturity
ladder according to the expected timing of cash flows. A maturing liability shall be a
cash outflow while a maturing asset shall be a cash inflow.
42 An NBFC shall estimate its short-term liquidity profile over a time horizon spanning
from 1 day to 6 months, based on business projections and other commitments for
short term liquidity planning and monitoring on dynamic basis.
H. Liquidity Risk Measurement – Stock Approach
43 An NBFC shall adopt a ‘stock’ approach to liquidity risk measurement and monitor
certain critical ratios related to liquidity risk management by putting in place internally
defined limits, as approved by its Board. The ratios and internal limits shall be based
on an NBFC’s liquidity risk management capabilities, experience, and profile. An
indicative list of critical ratios includes short-term liability to total assets, short-term
liability to long term assets, commercial papers to total assets, non-convertible
debentures (NCDs) (original maturity of less than one year) to total assets, short-
term liabilities to total liabilities, and long-term assets to total assets.
I. Currency Risk Management
44 The Board of an NBFC having foreign assets or liabilities on its Balance Sheet shall
recognise the liquidity risk arising out of such exposures and develop suitable
preparedness for managing the risk.
J. Interest Rate Risk (IRR) Management
45 Interest rate risk from the ‘earnings perspective’ is the immediate impact of interest
rate changes on NBFC's earnings (i.e., reported profits) by changing its Net Interest
Income (NII). Interest rate risk from ‘economic value perspective’ is long-term impact
of interest rate change on an NBFC's Market Value of Equity (MVE) or Net Worth
as the economic value of NBFC's assets, liabilities, and off-balance sheet positions
get affected due to variation in market interest rates. The interest rate risk from
13

‘earnings perspective’ is measured using the Traditional Gap Approach (TGA)
whereas the interest rate risk from ‘economic value perspective’ is measured using
Duration Gap Approach (DGA). An NBFC shall implement appropriate systems to
hedge Interest Rate Risk (IRR) arising from fluctuations in market interest rates.
46 Initially, an NBFC may use TGA to measure the IRR. An NBFC shall, over time,
adopt modern techniques for measurement of IRR, including Duration Gap Analysis,
Simulation, and Value at Risk (VaR), as it acquires adequate expertise and
sophistication in developing and managing MIS.
K. Earnings Perspective: TGA
47 The Gap or Mismatch risk measurement: An NBFC shall measure Gap or Mismatch
risk by calculating Gaps between rate sensitive liabilities and rate sensitive assets
(including off-balance sheet positions) over different time intervals as at a given
date. An asset or liability shall be considered rate sensitive if:
(1) There is a cash flow within the time interval under consideration;
(2) The interest rate resets / reprices contractually during the interval;
(3) The rate is dependent on changes in the Policy rates by the Reserve Bank;
(4) It is contractually pre-payable or withdrawable before the stated maturities.
48 An NBFC shall prepare the Gap Report by grouping rate sensitive liabilities, assets,
and off-balance sheet positions into time buckets according to residual maturity or
next repricing period, whichever is earlier. All investments, advances, deposits,
borrowings, and purchased funds that mature / reprice within a specified timeframe
shall be treated as interest rate sensitive. Any principal repayment of loan, including
final principal payment and interim instalment, expected to be received within the
time horizon, shall also be classified as rate sensitive. Interest rate bearing assets
and liabilities that vary with a reference rate and reprice at pre-determined intervals
shall be treated as rate sensitive at the time of repricing. While the interest rates on
term deposits are fixed during their currency, the tranches of advances portfolio with
floating rates shall be treated as rate sensitive.
49 An NBFC shall identify the Gaps in the following time buckets:
(1) 1 day to 7 days;
14

(2) 8 days to 14 days;
(3) 15 days – 30 / 31 days (one month);
(4) Over one month to 2 months;
(5) Over two months to 3 months;
(6) Over 3 months to 6 months;
(7) Over 6 months to 1 year;
(8) Over 1 year to 3 years;
(9) Over 3 years to 5 years;
(10) Over 5 years; and
(11) Non-sensitive.
50 An NBFC shall classify the various items of rate sensitive assets and liabilities and
off-balance sheet items as explained in Annex-III and prepare a statement of Interest
Rate Sensitivity (refer Annex IV for format)
51 The positive Gap (RSA > RSL) indicates potential benefit from rising interest rates,
while a negative gap (RSA < RSL) indicates potential benefit from declining interest
rates. Gap reports shall be used as a measure of interest rate sensitivity.
52 An NBFC shall set prudential limits on individual gaps with the approval of the Board
/ Management Committee. The prudential limits shall have a relationship with the
Total Assets, Earning Assets, or Equity. An NBFC may compute Earnings at Risk
(EaR) in terms of Net Interest Margin (NIM) based on its views on interest rate
movements and fix a prudent level with the approval of the Board / Management
Committee.
53 The classification of various components of assets and liabilities into different time
buckets for preparation of Gap reports (Liquidity and Interest Rate Sensitivity) shall
follow the benchmarks as indicated in Annex-II and III.
54 An NBFC which is better equipped to reasonably estimate the behavioural pattern
of various components of assets and liabilities on the basis of past data / empirical
studies could classify them in the appropriate time buckets, subject to approval from
the ALCO / Board. A copy of the note approved by the ALCO / Board shall be sent
to the Regional Office of DoS, RBI, under whose jurisdiction the registered office of
the company is located. These notes may contain 'what if scenario' analysis under
15

various assumed conditions and the contingency plans to face various adverse
developments.
55 An NBFC shall incorporate in its risk management framework, the potential impact
of premature closure of deposits and prepayment of loans and advances, which are
not captured under the current framework, but may significantly affect the liquidity
and interest rate risk profile, especially during periods of market volatility. An NBFC
shall establish a mechanism, supported by empirical studies and behavioural
analysis, to estimate the future behaviour of assets, liabilities, and off-balance sheet
items in response to changes in market variables, including interest rates.
56 The internal transfer pricing model is an important component for effective
implementation of ALM system. It assigns value to funds provided and funds used
based on prevailing market interest rates and supports effective measurement and
management of lending or credit spread, funding or liability spread, and mismatch
spread. The transfer pricing mechanism enables centralisation of interest rate risk
management, thereby facilitating effective oversight and control, and provides a
rational and consistent framework for the pricing of assets and liabilities.
L. Regulatory Reporting and Periodicity
57 An NBFC shall submit the following returns:
(1) Short Term Dynamic Liquidity (STDL) return (DNBS04A) at quarterly interval.
(2) Structural Liquidity and Interest Rate Sensitivity return (DNBS04B) at monthly
interval.
58 An NBFC shall refer to Reserve Bank of India (Filing of Supervisory Returns)
Directions, 2024 for submission timelines for above regulatory returns.
59 The formats of above returns have been provided at Annex IV.
16

Chapter III – Liquidity Coverage Ratio
Provisions of this Chapter shall not apply to non-deposit taking NBFCs with asset size
below ₹5000 crore.
A. Liquidity Coverage Ratio (LCR)
60 An NBFC shall maintain an adequate level of unencumbered HQLA that can be
converted into cash to meet its liquidity needs for a 30 calendar-day time horizon
under a significantly severe liquidity stress scenario as specified in the Directions.
61 LCR shall be calculated as:
Stock of High Quality Liquid Assets (HQLA)
Total net cash outflows over the next 30 calendar days
62 An NBFC shall maintain LCR of minimum 100 per cent (i.e., the stock of HQLA shall
at least equal total net cash outflows) on an ongoing basis.
Provided that an NBFC shall have the option to use its stock of HQLA during a period
of financial stress, thereby allowing LCR to fall below 100 per cent.
Provided further that an NBFC shall immediately report to the DoS, RBI, such use
of stock of HQLA during a period of financial stress along with reasons for such
usage and corrective steps initiated to rectify the situation.
63 The stress scenario for LCR intends to cover a combined idiosyncratic and market-
wide shock that would result in:
(1) Run-off of a proportion of deposits (in case of a deposit taking NBFC);
(2) Partial loss of unsecured wholesale funding capacity;
(3) Partial loss of secured, short-term financing with certain collateral and
counterparties;
(4) Additional contractual outflows that would arise from a downgrade in the
NBFC’s credit rating, including collateral posting requirements;
(5) Increases in market volatilities that impact the quality of collateral or potential
future exposure of derivative positions, requiring larger collateral haircuts or
additional collateral, or lead to other liquidity needs;
17

(6) Unscheduled drawdowns on committed but unused credit and liquidity facilities
extended to clients; and
(7) The potential need for the NBFC to buy back debt or honour non-contractual
obligations in the interest of mitigating reputational risk.
B. High Quality Liquid Assets (HQLA)
64 Liquid assets comprise of assets that can be readily sold or immediately converted
into cash at little or no loss of value or used as collateral to obtain funds in a range
of stress scenarios. Such assets shall be unencumbered. Assets are considered to
be HQLA if they can be easily and immediately converted into cash at little or no
loss of value. The liquidity of an asset depends on the underlying stress scenario,
the volume to be monetized and the timeframe considered. Nevertheless, there are
certain assets that are more likely to generate funds without incurring large
discounts due to fire-sales even in times of stress.
65 An NBFC shall maintain an adequate level of unencumbered HQLA that can be
converted into cash to meet its liquidity needs for a 30 calendar-day time horizon
under a significantly severe liquidity stress scenario, as specified in these Directions.
66 HQLA shall possess the following characteristics:
(1) Fundamental Characteristics: These include low credit and market risk; ease
and certainty of valuation; low correlation with risky assets; and listing on a
developed and recognized exchange market.
(2) Market related characteristics: These include active and sizeable market;
presence of committed market makers; low market concentration; and flight to
quality (tendencies to move into these types of assets in a systemic crisis).
C. Classification of assets for HQLA Computation
67 For computing LCR, assets to be included in stock of HQLA are those that the NBFC
is holding on the first day of the stress period. Such assets shall be valued at an
amount no greater than their current market value. Depending upon the nature of
assets, they have been assigned different haircuts as indicated below, which shall
be applied while calculating the HQLA for the purpose of calculation of LCR. The
assets and the haircuts are as under.
18

68 Assets to be included as HQLA without any haircut:
(1) Cash; i.e., cash on hand and demand deposits with Scheduled Commercial
Banks.
(2) Government Securities;
(3) Marketable securities issued or guaranteed by foreign sovereigns satisfying all
the following conditions:
(i) Assigned a zero per cent risk weight by banks under standardized approach
for credit risk;
(ii) Traded in large, deep and active repo or cash markets characterised by a
low level of concentration; and proven record as a reliable source of liquidity
in the markets (repo or sale) even during stressed market conditions; and
(iii) Not issued by a bank / financial institution / NBFC or any of its affiliated
entities.
69 Assets to be considered for HQLA with a minimum haircut of 15 per cent shall not
be issued by a bank / financial institution / NBFC or any of its affiliate entities and
are limited to the following:
(1) Marketable securities representing claims on or claims guaranteed by
sovereigns, Public Sector Entities (PSEs), or multilateral development banks
that are assigned a 20 per cent risk weight by banks under standardised
approach for credit risk;
(2) Corporate bonds rated AA- or above by an eligible credit rating agency; and
(3) Commercial Papers with a short-term rating equivalent to the long-term rating
of AA- or above by an eligible credit rating agency.
70 Asset to be considered for HQLA with a minimum haircut of 50 per cent shall not be
issued by a bank / financial institution / NBFC or any of its affiliate entities and are
limited to the following:
(1) Marketable securities representing claims on or claims guaranteed by
sovereigns having risk weights higher than 20 per cent but not higher than 50
per cent, i.e., they should have a credit rating not lower than BBB- as
prescribed for banks in India.
19

(2) Common Equity Shares included in NSE CNX Nifty index and / or S&P BSE
Sensex index.
(3) Corporate debt securities (including commercial paper) and the securities
having usual fundamental and market related characteristics for HQLA and
meeting the following conditions:
(i) Have a long-term credit rating from an eligible credit rating agency between
A+ and BBB-, or in the absence of a long-term rating, a short-term rating
equivalent in quality to the long-term rating;
(ii) Traded in large, deep, and active repo or cash markets characterised by a
low level of concentration; and
(iii) Have a proven record as a reliable source of liquidity in the markets (repo
or sale) even during stressed market conditions, i.e., a maximum decline of
price not exceeding 20 per cent or increase in haircut over a 30-day period
not exceeding 20 percentage points during a relevant period of significant
liquidity stress.
71 For a deposit taking NBFC, unencumbered approved securities held as per the
provisions of Section 45IB of the RBI Act, 1934 (Section 29B of NHB Act, 1987 in
case of a deposit taking HFC), shall be reckoned as HQLA only to the extent of 80
per cent of the required holding.
72 All assets in the stock of liquid assets must be managed as part of common pool
and shall be subject to the following operational requirements:
(1) Must be available at all times to be converted into cash;
(2) Shall be unencumbered;
(3) Shall not be co-mingled / used as hedges on trading position; designated as
collateral or credit enhancement in structured transactions; or designated to
cover operational costs;
(4) Shall be managed with sole intent for use as a source of contingent funds; and
(5) Shall be under the control of specific function/s charged with managing liquidity
risk of the bank, such as the ALCO.
73 An NBFC shall periodically monetize a proportion of assets through repo or outright
sale to test the saleability of these assets and to minimize the risk of negative
20

signalling during period of stress. An NBFC shall also maintain liquid assets
consistent with distribution of its liquidity needs by currency.
74 If an eligible liquid asset becomes ineligible (e.g., due to downgrade), an NBFC shall
be allowed to keep the asset in its stock of liquid assets for an additional 30 calendar
days in order to have sufficient time to adjust the stock / replace the asset.
D. Total net cash outflows
75 Total net cash outflows is the difference between total expected cash outflows and
total expected cash inflows over the subsequent 30 calendar days.
76 Stressed cash flows shall be computed by assigning a predefined stress percentage
to the overall cash inflows and cash outflows. Total expected cash outflows
(stressed outflows) shall be calculated by multiplying the outstanding balances of
various categories or types of liabilities and off-balance sheet commitments by 115
per cent (15 per cent being the rate at which they are expected to run off further or
be drawn down). Total expected cash inflows (stressed inflows) shall be calculated
by multiplying the outstanding balances of various categories of contractual
receivables by 75 per cent (25 per cent being the rate at which they are expected to
under-flow). However, total cash inflows shall be subjected to an aggregate cap of
75 per cent of total expected cash outflows. Accordingly, the formula for total net
cash outflows over the next 30 days shall be as under: Total Net Cash outflows over
the next 30 days = Stressed Outflows - Min (stressed inflows; 75 per cent of stressed
outflows).
Items of Cash Inflows Items of Cash Outflows
a. Maturing secured lending a. Deposits
transactions backed by HQLA
b. Unsecured wholesale Funding
b. Margin Lending backed by all
c. Secured Funding
other collateral
c. All other assets d. Additional requirements
[(i)+(ii)+(iii)+(iv)+(v)+(vi)+(vii)+(viii)]:
d. Lines of credit – Credit or liquidity
(i) Net derivative cash outflows
facilities or other contingent funding
21

Items of Cash Inflows Items of Cash Outflows
facilities that the NBFC holds at (ii) Liquidity needs (e.g., collateral calls)
other institutions for its own purpose related to financing transactions,
e. Other inflows by counterparty derivatives and other contracts
where ‘downgrade triggers’ up to
f. Net derivatives cash inflows
and including a 3-notch downgrade
g. Other contractual cash inflows
(iii) Market valuation changes on
(please specify as footnotes)
derivatives transactions (largest
absolute net 30-day collateral flows
realised during the preceding 24
months) based on look back
approach
(iv) Increased liquidity needs related to
the potential for valuation changes in
collateral securing derivatives
(v) Increased liquidity needs related to
excess non-segregated collateral
held that could contractually be
called at any time by the counterparty
(vi) Increased liquidity needs related to
contractually required collateral on
transactions for which the
counterparty has not yet demanded
the collateral be posted
(vii) Increased liquidity needs related to
derivative transactions that allow
collateral substitution to non-HQLA
assets
(viii) Currently undrawn committed credit
and liquidity facilities
22

Items of Cash Inflows Items of Cash Outflows
e. Other contingent funding liabilities
f. Any other contractual outflows not
captured elsewhere in the template
E. Computation of Net cash outflows
S No. Net Cash outflows over the 30 Amount
days period
A Total Cash Outflows
B Stressed Cash Outflows (A *
115%)
C Total Cash Inflows
D Stressed Cash Inflows (C *
75%)
E Total net cash outflows over
the next 30 days
= Stressed Outflows (B) -
Minimum of (Stressed Inflows
(D); 75% of Stressed
Outflows(B)).
77 An NBFC shall not be permitted to double count items. If an asset is included in the
‘stock of HQLA’ (i.e., the numerator), the associated cash inflows from that asset
shall not be simultaneously counted as cash inflows (i.e., part of the denominator).
Where an item could potentially be counted in multiple outflow categories such as
committed liquidity facilities granted to cover debt maturing within the 30 calendar
day period, an NBFC only has to assume up to the maximum contractual outflow for
that product.
23

F. LCR Disclosure
78 An NBFC is required to disclose information on its LCR every quarter. Further, an
NBFC shall disclose information on LCR in accordance with Reserve Bank of India
(Non-Banking Financial Companies – Financial Statements: Presentation and
Disclosures) Directions, 2025.
24

Chapter IV – Repeal and Other Provisions
A. Repeal and Saving
79 With the issue of these Directions, the existing Directions, instructions, and
guidelines relating to Asset Liability Management as applicable to Non-Banking
Financial Companies stands repealed, as communicated vide circular
DOR.RRC.REC.302/33-01-010/2025-26 dated November 28, 2025. The Directions,
instructions and guidelines already repealed shall continue to remain repealed.
80 Notwithstanding such repeal, any action taken or purported to have been taken, or
initiated under the repealed Directions, instructions, or guidelines shall continue to
be governed by the provisions thereof. All approvals or acknowledgments granted
under these repealed lists shall be deemed as governed by these Directions.
Further, the repeal of these directions, instructions, or guidelines shall not in any
way prejudicially affect:
(1) any right, obligation or liability acquired, accrued, or incurred thereunder;
(2) any, penalty, forfeiture, or punishment incurred in respect of any contravention
committed thereunder;
(3) any investigation, legal proceeding, or remedy in respect of any such right,
privilege, obligation, liability, penalty, forfeiture, or punishment as aforesaid;
and any such investigation, legal proceedings or remedy may be instituted,
continued, or enforced and any such penalty, forfeiture or punishment may be
imposed as if those directions, instructions, or guidelines had not been
repealed.
B. Application of other laws not barred
81 The provisions of these Directions shall be in addition to, and not in derogation of
the provisions of any other laws, rules, regulations, or directions, for the time being
in force.
25

C. Interpretations
82 For the purpose of giving effect to the provisions of these Directions or in order to
remove any difficulties in the application or interpretation of the provisions of these
Directions, the RBI may, if it considers necessary, issue necessary clarifications in
respect of any matter covered herein and the interpretation of any provision of these
Directions given by the RBI shall be final and binding.
(Sunil T S Nair)
Chief General Manager
26

Annex – I: Public disclosure on liquidity risk
(i) Funding Concentration based on significant counterparty (both deposits and
borrowings)
Sr. Number of Amount % of Total % of Total Liabilities
No. Significant (₹ crore) deposits
Counterparties
(ii) Top 20 large deposits (amount in ₹ crore and per cent of total deposits)
(iii) Top 10 borrowings (amount in ₹ crore and per cent of total borrowings)
(iv) Funding Concentration based on significant instrument/product
Sr. No. Name of the Amount % of Total Liabilities
instrument/product (₹ crore)
(v) Stock Ratios:
(a) Commercial papers as a per cent of total public funds, total liabilities and total
assets
(b) Non-convertible debentures (original maturity of less than one year) as a per cent
of total public funds, total liabilities and total assets
(c) Other short-term liabilities, if any as a per cent of total public funds, total liabilities
and total assets
(vi) Institutional set-up for liquidity risk management
27

Annex – II: Maturity Profile – Liquidity
Heads of Accounts Time-bucket category
A. Outflows
1. Capital funds
a) Equity capital, Non-redeemable or In the 'over 5 years' time-bucket.
perpetual preference capital,
Reserves, Funds and Surplus
b) Preference capital - redeemable / As per the residual maturity of the shares.
nonperpetual
2. Gifts, grants, donations and The 'over 5 years' time-bucket. However,
benefactions if such gifts, grants, etc., are tied to
specific end-use, then these may be
slotted in the time-bucket as per purpose /
end-use specified.
3. Notes, Bonds and debentures
a) Plain vanilla bonds / debentures As per the residual maturity of the
instruments
b) Bonds / debentures with As per the residual period for the earliest
embedded call / put options exercise date for the embedded option.
(including zero coupon / deep
discount bonds)
c) Fixed rate notes As per the residual maturity
4. Deposits :
a) Public deposits As per the residual maturity.
b) Inter Corporate Deposits These, being institutional / wholesale
deposits, shall be slotted as per their
residual maturity
c) Commercial Papers As per the residual maturity
5. Borrowings
a) Term money borrowings As per the residual maturity
b) From the Reserve Bank, Govt. & As per the residual maturity
others
c) Bank borrowings in the nature of Over six months and up to one year
WCDL, CC, etc.
6. Current liabilities and provisions :
a) Sundry creditors As per the due date or likely timing of cash
outflows. A behavioural analysis could
also be made to assess the trend of
outflows and the amounts slotted
accordingly.
b) Expenses payable (other than As per the likely time of cash outflow.
interest)
28

c) Advance income received, In the 'over 5 years' time-bucket as these
receipts from borrowers pending do not involve any cash outflow.
adjustment
d) Interest payable on bonds / In respective time buckets as per the due
deposits date of payment.
e) Provisions for NPAs The amount of provision may be netted
out from the gross amount of the NPA
portfolio and the net amount of NPAs be
shown as an item under inflows in
stipulated time-buckets.
f) Provision for Investments portfolio The amount may be netted from the gross
value of investments portfolio and the net
investments be shown as inflow in the
prescribed time-slots. In case provisions
are not held security-wise, the provision
may be shown on "over 5 years" time
bucket.
g) Other provisions To be bucketed as per the purpose/ nature
of the underlying transaction.
B. Inflows
1. Cash In 1 to 7 day time-bucket.
2. Remittance in transit In 1 to 7 day time-bucket.
3. Balances with banks (in India only)
a) Current account The stipulated minimum balance be
shown in 6 months to 1 year bucket. The
balance in excess of the minimum balance
be shown under Day 1-7 bucket.
b) Deposit accounts / short term As per residual maturity.
deposits
4. Investments (net of provisions)
a) Mandatory investments As suitable to the NBFC
b) Non-mandatory Listed "1 day to 30 / 31 days (One month)" Over
one month and upto 2 months", and "Over
two months and upto 3 months" buckets
depending upon the defeasance period
proposed by the NBFCs
c) Non-mandatory unlisted securities In the Over 5 years bucket
(e.g. shares, etc.)
d) Non-mandatory unlisted securities As per residual maturity
having a fixed term maturity
e) AIF units In the 'over 5 year' time bucket.
5. In case Trading Book is followed
Equity shares, convertible preference (i) Shares classified as ‘current’
shares, non-redeemable / perpetual investments representing trading
preference shares, shares of book of the NBFC may be shown in
subsidiaries / joint ventures and units in time buckets of ‘1 day 7 days, 8 days
29

open ended mutual funds and other to 14 days, 15 days to 30 days (One
investments. month)’’Over one month and upto 2
months’, and ‘Over two months and
upto 3 months’ buckets depending
upon the defeasance period
proposed by the NBFC.
(ii) Shares classified as ‘long term
investments may be kept in over ‘5
years' time’ bucket. However, the
shares of the assisted units /
companies acquired as part of the
initial financing package, may be
slotted in the relative time bucket
keeping in view the pace of project
implementation / time-overrun, etc.,
and the resultant likely timeframe for
divesting such shares.
6. Advances (performing)
a) Bill of Exchange and promissory As per the residual usance of the
notes discounted and underlying bills.
rediscounted
b) Term loans (rupee loans only) The cash inflows on account of the
interest and principal of the loan may be
slotted in respective time buckets as per
the timing of the cash flows as stipulated
in the original / revised repayment
schedule.
c) Corporate loans / short term loans As per the residual maturity
7. Non-performing loans (May be shown
net of the provisions, interest suspense
held)
a) Sub-standard
i) All overdues and instalments In the 3 to 5 year time-bucket.
of principal falling due during
the next three years
ii) Entire principal amount due In the over 5 years' time-bucket
beyond the next three years
b) Doubtful and loss
i) All instalments of principal In the over 5 year time-bucket
falling due during the next five
years as also all overdues
ii) Entire principal amount due In the over 5 year time-bucket
beyond the next five years
8. Assets on lease Cash flows from the lease transaction may
be slotted in respective time buckets as
per the timing of the cash flow.
30

9. Fixed assets (excluding leased assets) In the 'over 5 year' time-bucket.
10. Other assets
(a) Intangible assets and items not In the 'over 5 year' time-bucket.
representing cash inflows.
(b) (b) Other items (such as accrued In respective maturity buckets as per the
income, other receivables, staff timing of the cashflows.
loans, etc.)
C. Contingent liabilities
(a) Letters of credit / guarantees (outflow Based on the past trend analysis of the
through devolvement) devolvement vis-a-vis the outstanding
amount of guarantees (net of margins
held), the likely devolvement shall be
estimated and this amount could be
distributed in various time buckets on
judgmental basis. The assets created out
of devolvement may be shown under
respective maturity buckets on the basis
of probable recovery dates.
(b) Loan commitments pending disbursal In the respective time buckets as per the
(outflow) sanctioned disbursement schedule.
(c) Lines of credit committed to / by other As per usance of the bills to be received
Institutions (outflow / inflow) under the lines of credit.
Note:
Any event-specific cash flows (e.g., outflow due to wage settlement arrears, capital
expenses, income tax refunds, etc.) shall be shown in a time bucket corresponding
to timing of such cash flows.
(i) All overdue liabilities be shown in the 1 to 7 days and 8-14 days time buckets
based
on behavioural estimates
(ii) Overdue receivables on account of interest and instalments of standard loans
/ hire purchase assets / leased rentals shall be slotted as below:
31

(i) Overdue for less than one month. In the 3 to 6 month bucket.
(ii) Interest overdue for more than one month In the 6 to 12 month bucket
but less than seven months (i.e., before without reckoning the grace
the relative amount becomes past due for period of one month.
six months)
(iii) Principal instalments overdue for 7 In 1 to 3 year bucket.
months but less than one year
32

Annex – III: Interest Rate Sensitivity
Heads of accounts Rate sensitivity of time bucket
Liabilities
1. Capital, Reserves & Surplus Non-sensitive
2. Gifts, grants & benefactions Non-sensitive
3. Notes, bonds & debentures:
a) Floating rate Sensitive; reprice on the roll-over / repricing
date, shall be slotted in respective time buckets
as per the repricing dates.
b) Fixed rate (plain vanilla) including Sensitive; reprice on maturity. To be placed in
zero coupons respective time buckets as per the residual
maturity of such instruments.
c) Instruments with embedded options Sensitive; could reprice on the exercise date of
the option particularly in rising interest rate
scenario. To be placed in respective time
buckets as per the next exercise date.
4. Deposits
a) Deposits / Borrowings
i) Fixed rate Sensitive; could reprice on maturity or in case
of premature withdrawal being permitted, after
the lock-in period, if any, stipulated for such
withdrawal. To be slotted in respective time
buckets as per residual maturity or as per
residual lock-in period, as the case may be.
The prematurely withdrawable deposits with no
lock-in period or past such lock-in period, shall
be slotted in the earliest / shortest time bucket.
ii) Floating rate Sensitive; reprice on the contractual roll-over
date. To be slotted in the respective time
buckets as per the next repricing date.
b) ICDs Sensitive; reprice on maturity. To be slotted as
per the residual maturity in the respective time
buckets.
5. Borrowings:
a) Term-money borrowing Sensitive; reprices on maturity. To be placed as
per residual maturity in the relative time bucket.
b) Borrowings from others
i) Fixed rate Sensitive; reprice on maturity. To be placed as
per residual maturity in the relative time bucket.
ii) Floating rate Sensitive; reprice on the roll-over / repricing
date. To be placed as per residual period to the
repricing date in the relative time bucket.
6. Current liabilities & provisions
a. Sundry creditors Non-sensitive
33

b. Expenses payable
c. Swap adjustment a/c.
d. Advance income received / receipts
from borrowers pending adjustment
e. Interest payable on bonds /
deposits
f. Provisions
7. Repos / bills rediscounted / forex swaps Sensitive; reprices on maturity. To be placed as
(Sell / Buy) per the residual maturity in respective buckets.
Assets:
1. Cash Non-sensitive.
2. Remittance in transit Non-sensitive.
3. Balances with banks in India
a) In current a/c. Non-sensitive.
b) In deposit accounts, Money at call Sensitive; reprices on maturity. To be placed as
and short notice and other per residual maturity in respective time
placements buckets.
4. Investments
a) Fixed income securities (e.g. Sensitive on maturity. To be slotted as per
Government securities, zero residual maturity.
coupon bonds, bonds, debentures, However, the bonds / debentures valued by
cumulative, non-cumulative, applying NPA norms due to non-servicing of
redeemable preference shares, interest, shall be shown, net of provisions
etc.) made, in:
i) 3-5 year bucket - if sub-standard norms
applied.
ii) Over 5 year bucket - if doubtful norms
applied.
b) Floating rate securities Sensitive; reprice on the next repricing date. To
be slotted as per residual time to the repricing
date.
c) Equity shares, convertible Non-sensitive.
preference shares, shares of
subsidiaries / joint ventures, venture
capital units.
5. Advances (performing)
a) Bills of exchange, promissory notes Sensitive on maturity. To be slotted as per the
discounted & rediscounted residual usance of the underlying bills.
b) Term loans / corporate loans / Short
Term Loans (rupee loans only)
i) Fixed Rate Sensitive on cash flow / maturity.
ii) Floating Rate Sensitive only when PLR or risk premium is
changed by the NBFCs.
The amount of term loans shall be slotted in
time buckets which correspond to the time
34

taken by NBFC to effect changes in their PLR
in response to market interest rates.
6. Non-performing loans: (net of
provisions, interest suspense and
claims received from ECGC)
a. Sub-standard To be slotted as indicated at item B.7 of Annex
b. Doubtful and loss II.
7. Assets on lease The cash flows on lease assets are sensitive to
changes in interest rates. The leased asset
cash flows be slotted in the time-buckets as per
timing of the cash flows.
8. Fixed assets (excluding assets on Non-sensitive.
lease)
9. Other assets
a) Intangible assets and items not Non-sensitive.
representing cash flows.
b) Other items (e.g. accrued income, Non-sensitive.
other receivables, staff loans, etc.)
10. Reverse Repos / Swaps (Buy / Sell) Sensitive on maturity. To be slotted as per
and Bills rediscounted (DUPN) residual maturity.
11. Other (interest rate) products
a) Interest rate swaps Sensitive; to be slotted as per residual maturity
in respective time buckets.
b) Other Derivatives To be classified suitably as per the residual
maturity in respective time buckets
35

Annex – IV: Formats for Returns
DNBS04A: Statement of short-term Dynamic Liquidity
Particulars Next day to 7 8 days to 14 15 days to 1 month to 3 3 to 6 Total
Days days 30/31 days months months
A. OUTFLOWS
1. Increase in loans & Advances - - - - - -
(i) Term Loans -
(ii) Working Capital (WC) -
(iii) Micro Retail Loans of MFIs -
(iv) Others, if any -
2. Net increase in investments - - - - - -
(i) Equity Shares -
(ii) Convertible Preference Shares -
(iii) Non-Redeemable / Perpetual Preference Shares -
(iv) Shares of Subsidiaries -
(v) In shares of Joint Ventures -
(vi) Bonds -
(vii) Debentures -
(viii) Govt./approved securities -
(ix) In Open ended Mutual Funds -
(x) Others (Please Specify) -
3. Net decrease in public deposits, ICDs -
4. Net decrease in borrowings from various sources/net increase in market -
lending
5. Security Finance Transactions - - - - - -
6. Other outflows -
7. Total Outflow on account of OBS items (OO) (Details to be given in below -
table)
TOTAL OUTFLOWS (A) (1 +2 + 3 + 4 + 5 + 6 + 7) - - - - - -
B. INFLOWS
1. Net cash position -
2. Net Increase in Capital (i+ ii + iii) - - - - - -
(i) Equity Paid-Up Capital -
(ii) Compulsorily Convertible Preference Shares -
(iii) Other Preference Shares -
3. Reserves & Surplus (i+ ii + iii + iv + v + vi + vii + viii + ix + x + xi + xii + xiii) - - - - - -
(i) Share Premium Account -
(ii) General Reserves -
(iii) Statutory / Special Reserve (Section 45-IC reserve to be shown separately -
below item no.(vii))
(iv) Reserves under Sec 45-IC of RBI Act 1934 -
(v) Capital Redemption Reserve -
36

(vi) Debenture Redemption Reserve -
(vii) Other Capital Reserves -
(viii) Other Revenue Reserves -
(ix) Investment Fluctuation Reserves / Investment Reserves -
(x) Revaluation Reserves - - - - - -
x.1 Revaluation Reserves - Property -
x.2 Revaluation Reserves - Financial Assets -
(xi) Share Application Money Pending Allotment -
(xii) Others (Please mention) -
(xiii) Balance of profit and loss account -
4. Net increase in deposits -
5. Interest inflow on investments -
6. Interest inflow on performing Advances -
7. Net increase in borrowings from various sources - - - - - -
8. Other inflows (Please Specify) -
9. Total Inflow on account of OBS items -
TOTAL INFLOWS (B) (1 to 9) - - - - - -
C. Mismatch (B - A) - - - - - -
D. Cumulative mismatch - - - - - -
E. C as percentage to Total Outflows -% -% -% -% -% -%
37

DNBS04B: Statement of Structural Liquidity
Particulars Next 8 days 15 days Over Over Over 3 Over 6 Over 1 Over 3 Over 5 Total
day to 7 to 14 to 30/31 one two months months year years years
days days days month months and and and and
(One and and upto 6 upto 1 upto 3 upto 5
month) upto 2 upto 3 months year years years
months months
A. OUTFLOWS
1. Capital (i + ii + iii + iv) - - - - - - - - - - -
(i) Equity Capital -
(ii) Perpetual / Non-Redeemable Preference -
Shares
(iii) Non-Perpetual / Redeemable Preference -
Shares
(iv) Others -
2. Reserves & Surplus - - - - - - - - - - -
3. Gifts, Grants, Donations & Benefactions -
4. Bonds & Notes - - - - - - - - - - -
5. Deposits (i+ ii) - - - - - - - - - - -
(i) Term Deposits from Public -
(ii) Others -
6. Borrowings - - - - - - - - - - -
7. Current Liabilities & Provisions - - - - - - - - - - -
8. Statutory Dues -
9. Unclaimed Deposits (i + ii) - - - - - - - - - - -
(i) Pending for less than 7 years -
(ii) Pending for greater than 7 years -
10. Any Other Unclaimed Amount -
11. Debt Service Realisation Account -
12. Other Outflows -
13. Outflows on Account of Off Balance Sheet - - - - - - - - - - -
(OBS) Exposure
A. TOTAL OUTFLOWS (A) - - - - - - - - - - -
(Sum of 1 to 13)
A1. Cumulative Outflows - - - - - - - - - - -
B. INFLOWS
1. Cash -
2. Remittance in Transit -
3. Balances with Banks - - - - - - - - - - -
a) Current Account -
b) Deposit Accounts /Short-Term Deposits -
4. Investments (i+ ii + iii + iv + v) - - - - - - - - - - -
(i) Statutory Investments (only for NBFCs-D) -
38

(ii) Listed Investments - - - - - - - - - - -
(a) Current -
(b) Non-current -
(iii) Unlisted Investments - - - - - - - - - - -
(a) Current -
(b) Non-current -
(iv) Venture Capital Units -
(v) Others (Please Specify) -
5. Advances (Performing) - - - - - - - - - - -
6. Gross Non-Performing Loans (GNPA) - - - - - - - - - - -
7. Inflows from Assets On Lease -
8. Fixed Assets (Excluding Assets on Lease) -
9. Other Assets : - - - - - - - - - - -
10. Security Finance Transactions - - - - - - - - - - -
11. Inflows on Account of Off Balance Sheet - - - - - - - - - - -
(OBS) Exposure
B. TOTAL INFLOWS (B) - - - - - - - - - - -
(Sum of 1 to 11)
C. Mismatch (B - A) - - - - - - - - - - -
D. Cumulative Mismatch - - - - - - - - - - -
E. Mismatch as % of Total Outflows -% -% -% -% -% -% -% -% -% -% -%
F. Cumulative Mismatch as % of Cumulative -% -% -% -% -% -% -% -% -% -% -%
Total Outflows
39

DNBS04B: Statement of Interest Rate Sensitivity (IRS)
Particulars Next 8 days 15 days Over one Over two Over 3 Over 6 Over 1 Over 3 Over 5 Non- Total
day to to 14 to 30/31 month months months months year years years sensitive
7 days days days and upto and upto and upto and upto and and
(One 2 3 6 1 year upto 3 upto 5
month) months months months years years
A. Liabilities (OUTFLOW)
1. Capital (i + ii + iii + iv) - - - - - - - - - - - -
(i) Equity -
(ii) Perpetual preference shares -
(iii) Non-perpetual preference shares -
(iv) Others (Please furnish, if any) -
2. Reserves & surplus - - - - - - - - - - - -
3. Gifts, grants, donations & benefactions -
4. Bonds & Notes - - - - - - - - - - - -
a) Fixed rate plain vanilla including zero coupons -
b) Instruments with embedded options -
c) Floating rate instruments -
5. Deposits - - - - - - - - - - - -
(i) Term Deposits from public - - - - - - - - - - - -
(a) Fixed rate -
(b) Floating rate -
6. Borrowings - - - - - - - - - - - -
7. Current Liabilities & Provisions - - - - - - - - - - - -
8. Repos / Bills Rediscounted -
9. Statutory Dues -
10. Unclaimed Deposits (i + ii) - - - - - - - - - - - -
(i) Pending for less than 7 years -
(ii) Pending for greater than 7 years -
11. Any other Unclaimed Amount -
12. Debt Service Realisation Account -
13. Others -
14. Total Outflows account of OBS items -
A. TOTAL OUTFLOWS (1 to 14) - - - - - - - - - - - -
A1. Cumulative Outflows - - - - - - - - - - - -
B. INFLOWS
1. Cash -
2. Remittance in transit -
3. Balances with Banks (i + ii + iii) - - - - - - - - - - - -
(i) Current account -
(ii) In deposit accounts, and other placements -
(iii) Money at Call & Short Notice -
4. Investments (net of provisions) - - - - - - - - - - - -
5. Advances (Performing) - - - - - - - - - - - -
40

6. Non-Performing Loans (i +ii + iii) - - - - - - - - - - - -
(i) Sub-standard Category -
(ii) Doubtful Category -
(iii) Loss Category -
7. Assets on Lease -
8. Fixed assets (excluding assets on lease) -
9. Other Assets - - - - - - - - - - - -
10. Statutory Dues -
11. Unclaimed Deposits (i + ii) - - - - - - - - - - - -
(i) Pending for less than 7 years -
(ii) Pending for greater than 7 years -
12. Any other Unclaimed Amount -
13. Debt Service Realisation Account -
14. Total Inflow account of OBS items -
B. TOTAL INFLOWS (B) (Sum of 1 to 14) - - - - - - - - - - - -
C. Mismatch (B - A) - - - - - - - - - - - -
D. Cumulative mismatch - - - - - - - - - - - -
E. Mismatch as % of Total Outflows -% -% -% -% -% -% -% -% -% -% -% -%
F. Cumulative Mismatch as % of Cumulative Total -% -% -% -% -% -% -% -% -% -% -% -%
Outflows
41