भारतीय �रज़वर् बैंक
RESERVE BANK OF INDIA
RBI/DOR/2025-26/366
DOR.FIN.REC.No.285/03-10-119/2025-26 November 28, 2025
Reserve Bank of India (Standalone Primary Dealers) Directions, 2025
(Updated as on March 10, 2026)
Table of Contents
Chapter I – Preliminary ....................................................................................................... 2
Chapter II – Registration ..................................................................................................... 7
Chapter III – Capital Funds and Capital Requirements ..................................................... 9
Chapter IV – Sources and Application of Funds ............................................................. 42
Chapter V – Other Prudential Regulations ...................................................................... 57
Chapter VI – Governance Issues – Corporate Governance............................................ 60
Chapter VII – Miscellaneous Instructions ........................................................................ 62
Chapter VIII – Reporting Requirements ........................................................................... 64
Chapter IX – Repeal and Other Provisions ...................................................................... 65
Annex I ............................................................................................................................... 67
Annex II .............................................................................................................................. 68
Annex III ............................................................................................................................. 70
Annex IV ............................................................................................................................ 71
1

In exercise of the powers conferred under Section 45JA, 45K, 45L and 45M
of the Reserve Bank of India Act, 1934 (2 of 1934), and of all powers enabling it in this
behalf, the Reserve Bank, having considered it necessary in the public interest, and
being satisfied that, for the purpose of enabling it to regulate the financial system to
the advantage of the country so to do, and to prevent the affairs of any Standalone
Primary Dealer (SPD) from being conducted in a manner detrimental to the interest of
investors or in any manner prejudicial to the interest of such SPD, hereby issues to
every SPD, the Directions hereinafter specified.
Chapter I – Preliminary
A. Short Title and Commencement
1. These Directions shall be called the Reserve Bank of India (Standalone Primary
Dealers) Directions, 2025.
2. These directions shall come into force with immediate effect.
B. Applicability
3. These Directions shall apply to all Standalone Primary Dealers (SPDs) registered
as Non-Banking Financial Company (NBFC) with the RBI.
4. These Directions consolidate the regulations as issued by Department of
Regulation, Reserve Bank of India. However, any other Directions/ guidelines issued
by any other Department of the Reserve Bank, as applicable to a SPD shall be
adhered to, by it.
C. Applicability of other directions
5. Notwithstanding the applicability of Directions given above, the guidelines given in
the following Directions, where not contradictory to these Directions, shall also be
applicable to the SPDs, subject to layer-wise applicability:
(1) Reserve Bank of India (Non-Banking Financial Companies – Registration,
Exemptions and Framework for Scale Based Regulation) Directions, 2025.
(2) Paragraph 7 to 9, 12 to 18, and 25 to 40 of Reserve Bank of India (Non-
Banking Financial Companies – Governance) Directions, 2025.
(3) Paragraph 26 to 33 and paragraph 50 to 51 of Reserve Bank of India (Non-
Banking Financial Companies – Undertaking of Financial Services)
Directions, 2025.
2

(4) Reserve Bank of India (Non-Banking Financial Companies – Managing
Risks in Outsourcing) Directions, 2025.
(5) Reserve Bank of India (Non-Banking Financial Companies – Know Your
Customer) Directions, 2025.
(6) Paragraph 16 and 54 of Reserve Bank of India (Non-Banking Financial
Companies – Prudential Norms on Capital Adequacy) Directions, 2025.
(7) Reserve Bank of India (Non-Banking Financial Companies – Financial
Statements: Presentation and Disclosures) Directions, 2025 except
paragraph 13 to 15 and 20.
(8) Paragraph 24 of Reserve Bank of India (Non-Banking Financial Companies
- Concentration Risk Management) Directions, 2025.
(9) Reserve Bank of India (Non-Banking Financial Companies – Prudential
Norms on Declaration of Dividends) Directions, 2025.
(10) Paragraph 6 to 8, 14, 15, 25 and 26 of Reserve Bank of India (Non-Banking
Financial Companies – Miscellaneous) Directions, 2025.
(11) Reserve Bank of India (Non-Banking Financial Companies - Voluntary
Amalgamation) Directions.
6. The provisions of these Directions shall be in addition to, and not in derogation of
the provisions of any other laws, rules, regulations, or directions, for the time being in
force.
7. SPD may make use of the ‘Guidance Note on Operational Risk Management and
Operational Resilience’, as amended from time to time.
D. Regulatory Structure under Scale Based Regulation for NBFCs
8. SPD shall always be placed in Middle Layer as per the regulatory structure under
Scale Based Regulation for NBFCs as specified under Reserve Bank of India (Non-
Banking Financial Companies – Registration, Exemptions and Framework for Scale
Based Regulation) Directions, 2025.
E. Definitions
9. For the purpose of these Directions, unless the context otherwise requires:
(1) "Act" means the Reserve Bank of India Act, 1934;
(2) “Counterparty Credit Risk (CCR)” is the risk that the counterparty to a
transaction could default before the final settlement of the transaction's cash flows.
3

An economic loss would occur if the transactions or portfolio of transactions with
the counterparty has a positive economic value at the time of default. CCR creates
a bilateral risk of loss: the market value of the transaction can be positive or negative
to either counterparty to the transaction. The market value is uncertain and can vary
over time with the movement of underlying market factors.
(3) “Netting Set” is a group of transactions with a single counterparty that are
subject to a legally enforceable bilateral netting arrangement and for which netting
is recognised for regulatory capital purposes. Each transaction that is not subject to
a legally enforceable bilateral netting arrangement that is recognised for regulatory
capital purposes should be interpreted as its own netting set for the purpose of
these rules. Cross-Product Netting, i.e. inclusion of transactions of different product
categories (OTC derivative transactions and repo / reverse repo) within the same
netting set, is not permitted.
(4) “Securities Financing Transactions (SFTs)” are transactions such as
repurchase agreements, reverse repurchase agreements, security lending and
borrowing and, collateralised borrowing and lending (CBLO), where the value of the
transactions depends on market valuations and the transactions are often subject
to margin agreements.
(5) “Subordinated Debt (SD)” means an instrument which is fully paid-up,
unsecured, subordinate to the claims of other creditors, free of restrictive clauses,
and shall not be redeemable at the initiative of the holder or without the consent of
the Reserve Bank. SD instruments with an initial maturity of less than 5 years or
with a remaining maturity of less than one year shall not be included as part of Tier
2 capital. SD instruments eligible to be reckoned as Tier 2 capital will be limited to
50 percent of Tier 1 capital. The issuance shall be in adherence to the Guidelines
on SD Bonds (Tier 2 capital), as provided in Annex I. The SD instruments shall be
subjected to progressive discount at the rates shown below:
Residual Maturity of Instruments Rate of Discount (%)
Less than one year 100
One year and more but less than two years 80
Two years and more but less than three years 60
4

Three years and more but less than four years 40
Four years and more but less than five years 20
(6) 1[“Tier 1 capital” means paid-up capital, statutory reserves and other disclosed
free reserves including quarterly profits. Inclusion of quarterly profits shall be subject
to the following conditions:
(i) The financial statements shall be subjected to limited review / audit on a
quarterly basis by the statutory auditors.
(ii) Such profits shall be reduced by average dividend paid in the last three years
and the amount which can be reckoned for inclusion would be arrived at as
under:
EP = NP - 0.25 *D*t
t t
Where:
EP = Eligible profit up to quarter ‘t’ of the current financial year, t
t
varies from 1 to 4
NP = Net profit up to quarter ‘t’
t
D = average dividend paid for / pertaining to the last three financial
years
Losses in the current year shall be fully deducted from Tier 1 capital.
Investment in subsidiaries (where applicable), intangible assets, losses in current
accounting period, deferred tax asset and losses brought forward from previous
accounting periods shall be deducted from the Tier 1 capital.]
Explanation:
(i) In case any SPD is having substantial interest / exposure (as defined for
NBFCs) by way of loans and advances not related to business
relationship in other Group companies, such amounts will be deducted
from its Tier 1 capital.
(ii) SPDs shall not be required to deduct a Right-of-Use (ROU) asset
(created in terms of Ind AS 116-Leases) from Owned Fund, provided the
underlying asset being taken on lease is a tangible asset.
(7) “Tier 2 capital” includes the following:
1 Inserted with effect from March 10, 2026, vide Reserve Bank of India (Standalone Primary Dealers)
Amendment Directions, 2026 dated March 10, 2026.
5

(i) Undisclosed reserves and cumulative preference shares (other than
those which are compulsorily convertible into equity). Cumulative
preferential shares shall be fully paid-up and shall not contain clauses
which permit redemption by the holder.
Note: Cumulative preference shares will accumulate any dividend that is
not paid when due and no dividends can be paid on ordinary shares until
the entire backlog of unpaid dividends on cumulative preference shares
is cleared.
(ii) Revaluation reserves discounted at a rate of 55 per cent.
(iii) General provisions and loss reserves (to the extent these are not
attributable to actual diminution in value or identifiable potential loss in
any specific asset and are available to meet unexpected losses), up to a
maximum of 1.25 per cent of total risk weighted assets.
(iv) Hybrid debt capital instruments, which combine certain characteristics of
equity and debt.
(v) Subordinated debt.
10. Words or expressions used but not defined herein and defined in the RBI Act shall
have the same meaning as assigned to them in the RBI Act. Any other words or
expressions not defined in the RBI Act or any of the Directions issued by the Bank,
shall have the meanings respectively assigned to them under the Companies Act,
1956 or Companies Act, 2013 (Act 18 of 2013) as the case may be.
6

Chapter II – Registration
A. Role of Board
11. The SPD shall put in place Board approved policies and establish periodic review
mechanisms to ensure sound corporate governance. An illustrative list of such policies
to be approved by the Board or its Committee(s) is provided below. The specific
aspects to be addressed in these policies are detailed in the relevant paragraphs of
these Directions.
(1) The methodology for internal assessment of capital.
(2) Policy for Inter Corporate Deposits (ICDs).
(3) Investment Policy.
(4) Policy on Fit and Proper Criteria of Directors.
(5) Compensation Policy.
(6) Policy to undertake and monitor the foreign exchange business.
(7) Policy regarding undertaking mutual funds distribution.
(8) Outsourcing Policy.
(9) Code of conduct for DSA / DMA / Recovery Agents.
12. An illustrative list of reviews to be carried out by the Board or its Committee(s) is
provided below. The specific aspects to be addressed in these reviews are detailed in
the relevant paragraphs of these Directions.
(1) Investment in non-G-Sec at least at quarterly intervals.
(2) Outsourcing strategies and arrangements for their continued relevance, and
safety and soundness.
(3) Half yearly review of central records of material outsourcing.
(4) Progress made in putting in place a progressive risk management system and
risk management policy and strategy followed by the SPD.
(5) Conformity with corporate governance standards.
(6) Ageing analysis of entries pending reconciliation with outsourced vendors to be
placed before ACB.
B. Registration with the Reserve Bank
13. In exercise of the powers conferred under clause (b) of sub-section (1) of section
45-IA of the Reserve Bank of India Act, 1934 (Act 2 of 1934) and all the powers
enabling it in that behalf, the Reserve Bank, hereby specifies ₹10 crore as the net
7

owned fund (NOF) required for a non-banking financial company to commence or
carry on the business of non-banking financial institution, except wherever otherwise
a specific requirement as to NOF is prescribed by the Reserve Bank. Authorisation to
act as a SPD is subject to the NBFC fulfilling the eligibility conditions as prescribed by
Internal Debt Management Department of the Reserve Bank from time to time.
C. Investment from FATF non-compliant jurisdictions
14. SPD shall refer to paragraph 47 and 48 of Reserve Bank of India (Non-Banking
Financial Companies – Registration, Exemptions and Framework for Scale Based
Regulation) Directions, 2025.
8

Chapter III – Capital Funds and Capital Requirements
A. Capital Funds
15. Capital funds include Tier 1 and Tier 2 capital.
B. Minimum CRAR Ratio
16. SPDs are required to maintain a minimum Capital to Risk-Weighted Assets Ratio
(CRAR) of 15 per cent on an ongoing basis.
C. Measurement of Risk Weighted Assets
17. The details of credit risk weights for various on-balance sheet and off-balance
sheet items and methodology of computing the risk weighted assets for the credit risk
is given below.
D. Capital Adequacy for Credit Risk
18. Credit risk is defined as the risk that a party to a contractual agreement or
transaction will be unable to meet its obligations or will default on commitments.
D.1 Risk weights for calculation of CRAR
D.1.1 On-Balance Sheet Assets
19. All the on-balance sheet items are assigned percentage weights as per degree of
credit risk. The value of each asset / item is to be multiplied by the relevant risk weight
to arrive at risk adjusted value of the asset, as detailed below. The aggregate of the
risk weighted assets will be taken into account for reckoning the minimum capital ratio.
Nature of asset/item Percentage
weight
(i) Cash balances and balances in Current Account with RBI 0
(ii) Amounts lent in call / notice money market / other money market 20
instruments of banks / Financial Institutions (FIs) including
Certificate of Deposits (CDs) and balances in Current account
with banks
(iii) Investments
(a) Government securities / Approved securities guaranteed by 0
Central / State Governments [other than at (e) below]
(b) Fixed Deposits, Bonds of banks and FIs 20
9

(c) Bonds issued by banks / FIs as Tier 2 capital 100
(d) Shares of all Companies and debentures / bonds / @
Commercial Paper of Companies other than in (b) above /
units of mutual funds
(e) Securities of Public Sector Undertakings guaranteed by 20
Government but issued outside the market borrowing
programme
(f) Securities of and other claims on PDs 100
(g) Subordinated debts issued by other PDs 100
(iv) Current assets
(a) Loans to staff 100
(b) Other secured loans and advances considered good 100
(c) Others (to be specified) 100
(v) Fixed Assets(net of depreciation)
(a) Assets leased out (net book value) 100
(b) Fixed Assets 100
(vi) Other assets
(a) Income tax deducted at source (net of provision) 0
(b) Advance tax paid (net of provision) 0
(c) Interest accrued on Government securities 0
(d) Others (ROU assets) 100
Others (to be specified and risk weight indicated as per
X
counter party)
Notes: ( 1) Netting shall be done only in respect of assets where provisions for
depreciation or for bad and doubtful debts have been made.
(2) Assets which have been deducted from capital fund, shall have a risk
weight of `zero’.
(3) The PDs may net off the Current Liabilities and Provisions from the
Current Assets, Loans and Advances in their Balance Sheet, as the
Balance Sheet is drawn up as per the format prescribed under the
Companies Act. For capital adequacy purposes, no such netting off
should be done except to the extent indicated above.
10

@ Risk weights to be assigned by SPDs to their investments in corporate bonds,
to the rating of the bonds as under:
Short term instruments (bonds upto 1 year maturity)
CARE CRISIL India ICRA Brickwork Acuite INFOMERICS Risk
Ratings Ratings Ratings & Valuation weight
Ltd. and Research and Rating (per
Research Limited Ltd cent)
Private (Acuite)
Limited
(India
Ratings)
CARE CRISIL A1+ IND A1+ ICRA A1+ Brickwork A1+ Acuite A1+ IVR A1+ 20
A1+
CARE A1 CRISIL A1 IND A1 ICRA A1 Brickwork A1 Acuite A1 IVR A1 30
CARE A2 CRISIL A2 IND A2 ICRA A2 Brickwork A2 Acuite A2 IVR A2 50
CARE A3 CRISIL A3 IND A3 ICRA A3 Brickwork A3 Acuite A3 IVR A3 100
CARE A4 CRISIL A4 IND A4 & ICRA A4 Brickwork A4 Acuite A4 IVR A4 & D 150
& D & D D & D & D & D
Unrated Unrated Unrated Unrated Unrated Unrated 100
Long term instruments (bonds > 1 year maturity)
Rating AAA AA A BBB < BB Unrated
Risk 20 30 50 100 150 100
Weight
D.1.2 Off-Balance Sheet items
20. The credit risk exposure attached to off-Balance Sheet items has to be first
calculated by multiplying the face value of each of the off-Balance Sheet items by
‘credit conversion factor (CCF)’ as indicated below. This will then have to be again
multiplied by the weights attributable to the relevant counterparty as specified under
on-balance sheet items.
11

Nature of item CCF
per cent
(i) Share / debenture/ stock underwritten 50
(ii) Partly-paid shares / debentures/ other securities and actual 100
devolvement
(iii) Notional Equity / Index position underlying the equity Derivatives* 100
(iv) B ills discounted / rediscounted 100
(v) Other contingent liabilities / commitments like standby 50
commitments like standby facility with original maturity of over one
year
(vi) Similar contingent liabilities / commitments with original maturity of 0
upto one year or which can be unconditionally cancelled at any
time
* For guidelines on calculation of notional positions underlying the equity
derivatives, please refer to paragraphs 88 to 90 of these Directions.
Note: Cash margins / deposits should be deducted before applying the
Conversion Factor
D.1.3 Interest Rate Contracts
(i) General
21. The total risk weight for Interest Rate Derivative Contracts should be calculated by
means of a two-step process:
(a) Compute counterparty credit exposure by converting the notional amount of the
transaction into a credit equivalent amount by applying the current exposure
method and
(b) The resulting credit equivalent amount is multiplied by the risk weight applicable
to the counterparty or the type of asset, whichever is higher.
(ii) Current Exposure Method (used for measuring capital charge for default risk)
22. The credit equivalent amount of interest rate derivative contracts calculated using
the current exposure method is the sum of current exposure and potential future
exposure of these contracts.
23. While computing the credit exposure SPDs may exclude ‘sold options’ that are
outside netting and margin agreements, provided the entire premium / fee or any other
form of income is received / realised.
12

24. Current exposure is defined as the sum of the positive mark-to-market value of
these contracts. The Current Exposure Method requires periodical calculation of the
current exposure by marking these contracts to market, thus capturing the current
exposure. In case of bilateral netting arrangement, refer to the definition as specified
in paragraph 30.
25. Potential future exposure is determined by multiplying the notional principal
amount of each of these contracts, irrespective of whether the contract has a zero,
positive or negative mark-to-market value, by the relevant add-on factor indicated
below according to the nature and residual maturity of the instrument.
Table 1: Credit Conversion Factor (CCF) for Interest Rate Derivative Contracts
Residual Maturity CCF (%)
Interest Rate Derivative
Contracts
One year or less 0.50
Over one year to five years 1.00
Over five years 3.00
26. For contracts with multiple exchanges of principal, the add-on factors are to be
multiplied by the number of remaining payments in the contract.
27. For contracts that are structured to settle outstanding exposure following specified
payment dates and where the terms are reset such that the market value of the
contract is zero on these specified dates, the residual maturity would be set equal to
the time until the next reset date. However, in the case of interest rate contracts which
have residual maturities of more than one year and meet the above criteria, the CCF
or add-on factor is subject to a floor of 1.0 per cent.
28. No potential future exposure would be calculated for single currency floating /
floating interest rate swaps; the credit exposure on these contracts would be evaluated
solely on the basis of their mark-to-market value.
29. Potential future exposures should be based on ‘effective’ rather than ’apparent
notional amounts’. In the event that the ‘stated notional amount’ is leveraged or
enhanced by the structure of the transaction, SPDs must use the ‘effective notional
13

amount’ when determining potential future exposure. For example, a stated notional
amount of ₹5 crore with payments based on an internal rate of two times the applicable
rate would have an effective notional amount of ₹10 crore.
(iii) Bilateral netting arrangement
30. “Current Exposure” is the larger of zero, or the market value of a transaction or
portfolio of transactions within a netting set with a counterparty that would be lost upon
the default of the counterparty, assuming no recovery on the value of those
transactions in bankruptcy. Current exposure is often also called Replacement Cost
(RC).
31. When effective bilateral netting contracts as specified in paragraph 64 are in place,
current exposure i.e., replacement cost will be the net replacement cost and the
potential future exposure i.e., add-on will be A as calculated below:
Net
(1) Credit exposure on bilaterally netted forward transactions will be calculated
as the sum of the net mark-to-market replacement cost, if positive, plus an
add-on based on the notional underlying principal. The add-on for netted
transactions (A ) will equal the weighted average of the gross add-on
Net
(A ) and the gross add-on adjusted by the ratio of net current replacement
Gross
cost to gross current replacement cost (NGR).
This is expressed through the following formula:
A = 0.4 * A + 0.6 * NGR * A
Net Gross Gross
where:
NGR = level of net replacement cost / level of gross replacement cost for
transactions subject to legally enforceable netting agreements.
Note: SPDs must calculate NGR on a counterparty by counterparty basis for
all transactions that are subject to legally enforceable netting agreements.
A = sum of individual add-on amounts (calculated by multiplying the
Gross
notional principal amount by the appropriate add-on factors set out in Table 1
under paragraph 25, and Table under paragraph 65 of these Directions and
Table 3 under paragraph 10, and Table 4 under paragraph 12 of the Annex IV
of these Directions of all transactions subject to legally enforceable netting
agreements with one counterparty.
14

(2) For the purposes of calculating potential future exposure to a netting
counterparty for forward foreign exchange contracts and other similar
contracts in which the notional principal amount is equivalent to cash flows,
the notional principal is defined as the net receipts falling due on each value
date in each currency. The reason for this is that offsetting contracts in the
same currency maturing on the same date will have lower potential future
exposure as well as lower current exposure.
D.1.4 Capital charge for repo / reverse repo transactions:
32. The repo-style transactions should attract capital charge for Counterparty credit
risk (CCR), in addition to the credit risk and market risk. The CCR is defined as the
risk of default by the counterparty in a repo-style transaction, resulting in non-delivery
of the security lent / pledged / sold or non-repayment of the cash.
(i) Treatment in the books of the borrower of funds:
33. Where a PD has borrowed funds by selling / lending or posting, as collateral, of
securities, the ‘Exposure’ will be an off-balance sheet exposure equal to the 'market
value' of the securities sold / lent as scaled up after applying appropriate haircut as
detailed in paragraph 42 to 48 below. The 'off-balance sheet exposure' will be
converted into 'on-balance sheet' equivalent by applying a credit conversion factor of
100 per cent.
34. The amount of money received will be treated as collateral for the securities lent /
sold / pledged. Since the collateral is cash, the haircut for it would be zero.
35. The credit equivalent amount arrived at paragraph 33 above, net of amount of cash
collateral, will attract a risk weight as applicable to the counterparty.
36. As the securities will come back to the books of the borrowing SPD after the repo
period, it will continue to maintain the capital for the credit risk in the securities in the
cases where the securities involved in repo are held under HTM category, and capital
for market risk in cases where the securities are held under HFT category. The capital
charge for credit risk / specific risk would be determined according to the credit rating
of the issuer of the security. In the case of Government securities, the capital charge
for credit / specific risk will be 'zero'.
(ii) Treatment in the books of the lender of funds:
15

37. The amount lent will be treated as on-balance sheet / funded exposure on the
counter party, collateralised by the securities accepted under the repo.
38. The exposure, being cash, will receive a zero haircut.
39. The collateral will be adjusted downwards / marked down as per applicable haircut.
40. The amount of exposure reduced by the adjusted amount of collateral, will receive
a risk weight as applicable to the counterparty, as it is an on- balance sheet exposure.
41. The lending SPD will not maintain any capital charge for the security received by
it as collateral during the repo period, since such collateral does not enter its balance
sheet but is only held as a bailee.
(iii) Haircuts
42. SPDs should use only the standard supervisory haircuts for both the exposure as
well as the collateral.
43. The standard supervisory haircuts (assuming daily mark-to-market, daily
remargining and minimum holding period of five business-days), expressed as
percentages, would be as furnished in Table below.
44. The ratings indicated in Table 2 represent the ratings assigned by the domestic
rating agencies. In the case of exposures toward debt securities issued by foreign
central Governments and foreign corporates (if permitted), the haircut shall be based
on ratings of the International rating agencies as indicated in Table 3.
45. Sovereign will include the Bank and DICGC which are eligible for zero per cent
risk weight.
Table 2: Standard Supervisory Haircuts for Sovereign and other securities
which constitute Exposure and Collateral
SI. No. Issue Rating for Debt Residual Haircut
securities Maturity (in per cent)
(in years)
A Securities issued / guaranteed by the Government of India and issued by
the State Governments (Sovereign securities)
i Rating not applicable – as ≤ 1 year 0.5
Government securities are not >1 year and ≤ 5 years 2
currently rated in India >5 years 4
16

Domestic debt securities other than those indicated at Item No. i above
including the securities guaranteed by Indian State Governments
ii AAA TO AA ≤ 1 year 1
A1 > 1 year and ≤ 5 years 4
>5 years 8
iii A to BBB ≤ 1 year 2
A2 and A3 > 1 year and ≤ 5 years 6
>5 years 12
B Cash in the same currency 0
Table 3: Standard Supervisory Haircut for Exposures and Collaterals which are
obligations of foreign central sovereigns / foreign corporates
Issue rating for debt Residual Maturity Sovereigns Other Issues
securities as assigned (%) (%)
by international rating
agencies
AAA to AA / A1 <= 1 year 0.5 1
>1 year and ≤ 5 years 2 4
>5 years 4 8
A to BBB / A2 / A3 and <= 1 year 1 2
Unrated Bank Securities >1 year and ≤ 5 years 3 6
>5 years 6 12
46. Where the collateral is a basket of assets, the haircut on the basket will be,
H= ∑aH
i i
Where a is the weight of the asset (as measured by the amount / value of the asset
i
in units of currency) in the basket and H, the haircut applicable to that asset.
i
47. Adjustment for non-daily mark-to-market or remargining:
(a) For repo style transactions, SPDs should use minimum holing period of five
business days with daily remargining.
(b) In case a transaction has different minimum holding period or margining
frequency different from daily margining assumed, the applicable haircut for
the transaction will also need to be adjusted by scaling up / down the haircut
17

for 10 business days with daily margining indicated in Table 2 and 3 using the
formula given in paragraph 48 below.
48. Formula for adjustment for different holding periods and / or non-daily mark-to-
market or remargining:
Adjustment for the variation in holding period and margining / mark-to-market, as
indicated in paragraph 47 above will be done as per the following formula:
W h e r e :
𝐻𝐻
H = haircut
H = 10-business-day standard supervisory haircut for instrument
10
N = actual number of business days between remargining for capital market
R
transactions or revaluation for secured transactions T = minimum holding period
M
for the type of transaction.
(iv) Calculation of capital requirement
49. The exposure amount after risk mitigation is calculated as follows:
E* = max {0, [E x (1 + H ) - C x (1 - H - H )]}
e c fx
where:
E* = the exposure value after risk mitigation.
E = current value of the exposure for which the collateral qualifies as a risk mitigant.
H = haircut appropriate to the exposure.
e
C = the current value of the collateral received.
H = haircut appropriate to the collateral.
c
H = haircut appropriate for currency mismatch between the collateral and exposure.
fx
The exposure amount after risk mitigation (i.e., E*) will be multiplied by the risk
weight of the counterparty to obtain the risk-weighted asset amount for the
collateralised transaction.
18

50. The formula in paragraph 49 above will be adapted as follows to calculate the
capital requirements for transactions with bilateral netting agreements. The bilateral
netting agreements must meet the requirements set out in paragraph 63 and 64.
E* = max {0, [(Σ(E) – Σ(C)) + Σ (Es x Hs) +Σ (Efx x Hfx)]}
where:
E* = the exposure value after risk mitigation
E = current value of the exposure
C = the value of the collateral received
Es = absolute value of the net position in a given security
Hs = haircut appropriate to Es
Efx = absolute value of the net position in a currency different from the
settlement currency
Hfx = haircut appropriate for currency mismatch
51. The intention here is to obtain a net exposure amount after netting of the
exposures and collateral and have an add-on amount reflecting possible price
changes for the securities involved in the transactions and for foreign exchange risk if
any. The net long or short position of each security included in the netting agreement
will be multiplied by the appropriate haircut. All other rules regarding the calculation of
haircuts stated in paragraphs 42 to 49 equivalently apply for SPDs using bilateral
netting agreements for repo-style transactions.
D.1.5 Capital requirements for exposures to Central Counterparties (CCPs)
52. Definitions
(a) A central counterparty (CCP) is a clearing house that interposes itself
between counterparties to contracts traded in one or more financial markets,
becoming the buyer to every seller and the seller to every buyer and thereby
ensuring the future performance of open contracts. A CCP becomes
counterparty to trades with market participants through novation, an open offer
system, or another legally binding arrangement. For the purposes of the capital
framework, a CCP is a financial institution.
19

(b) A qualifying central counterparty (QCCP) is an entity that is licensed to
operate as a CCP (including a license granted by way of confirming an
exemption),and is permitted by the appropriate regulator / overseer with respect
to the products offered. This is subject to the provision that the CCP is based
and prudentially supervised in a jurisdiction where the relevant regulator /
overseer has established, and publicly indicated that it applies to the CCP on
an ongoing basis, domestic rules and regulations that are consistent with the
CPSS-IOSCO Principles for Financial Market Infrastructures.
(c) A clearing member is a member of, or a direct participant in, a CCP that is
entitled to enter into a transaction with the CCP, regardless of whether it enters
into trades with a CCP for its own hedging, investment or speculative purposes
or whether it also enters into trades as a financial intermediary between the
CCP and other market participants.
Note: For the purposes of these guidelines, where a CCP has a link to a second
CCP, that second CCP is to be treated as a clearing member of the first CCP.
Whether the second CCP’s collateral contribution to the first CCP is treated as
initial margin or a default fund contribution will depend upon the legal
arrangement between the CCPs. In such cases, if any, RBI should be consulted
for determining the treatment of this initial margin and default fund
contributions.
(d) A client is a party to a transaction with a CCP through either a clearing member
acting as a financial intermediary, or a clearing member guaranteeing the
performance of the client to the CCP.
(e) Initial margin means a clearing member’s or client’s funded collateral posted
to the CCP to mitigate the potential future exposure of the CCP to the clearing
member arising from the possible future change in the value of their
transactions. For the purposes of these guidelines, initial margin does not
include contributions to a CCP for mutualised loss sharing arrangements (i.e.
in case a CCP uses initial margin to mutualise losses among the clearing
members, it will be treated as a default fund exposure).
(f) Variation margin means a clearing member’s or client’s funded collateral
posted on a daily or intraday basis to a CCP based upon price movements of
their transactions.
20

(g) Trade exposures include the current and potential future exposure of a
clearing member or a client to a CCP arising from OTC derivatives, exchange
traded derivatives transactions or SFTs, as well as initial margin. It also includes
cash transactions routed through a CCP.
Note: For the purposes of this definition, the current exposure of a clearing
member includes the variation margin due to the clearing member but not yet
received.
(h) Default funds, also known as clearing deposits or guarantee fund contributions
(or any other names), are clearing members’ funded or unfunded contributions
towards, or underwriting of, a CCP’s mutualised loss sharing arrangements.
The description given by a CCP to its mutualised loss sharing arrangements is
not determinative of their status as a default fund; rather, the substance of such
arrangements will govern their status.
(i) Offsetting transaction means the transaction leg between the clearing
member and the CCP when the clearing member acts on behalf of a client (e.g.
when a clearing member clears or novates a client’s trade).
53. Scope of Application
(a) Exposures to central counterparties arising from OTC derivatives
transactions, exchange traded derivatives transactions, securities financing
transactions (SFTs) and the settlement of cash transactions, will be subject to
the counterparty credit risk treatment as indicted in this paragraph below.
(b) When the clearing member-to-client leg of a transaction is conducted under a
bilateral agreement, both the client SPD and the clearing member are to
capitalise that transaction.
(c) For the purpose of capital adequacy framework, CCPs will be considered as
financial institution and a SPD’s investments in the capital of CCPs should not
exceed 10 per cent of its capital funds, but after all applicable deductions or
any other limit as may be prescribed from time to time.
(d) Capital requirements will be dependent on the nature of CCPs viz. Qualifying
CCPs (QCCPs) and non-Qualifying CCPs.
(1) Regardless of whether a CCP is classified as a QCCP or not, a SPD
should have the responsibility to ensure that it maintains adequate capital
21

for its exposures. A SPD should consider whether it might need to hold
capital in excess of the minimum capital requirements if, for example, (i)
its dealings with a CCP give rise to more risky exposures or (ii) where,
given the context of that SPD’s dealings, it is unclear that the CCP meets
the definition of a QCCP.
(2) SPDs may be required to hold additional capital against their exposures
to QCCPs, if in the opinion of RBI, it is necessary to do so.
(3) Where the SPD is acting as a clearing member, the SPD should assess
through appropriate scenario analysis and stress testing whether the level
of capital held against exposures to a CCP adequately addresses the
inherent risks of those transactions. This assessment will include potential
future or contingent exposures resulting from future drawings on default
fund commitments, and / or from secondary commitments, if permitted, to
take over or replace offsetting transactions from clients of another clearing
member in case of this clearing member defaulting or becoming insolvent.
(4) A SPD must monitor and report to senior management and the appropriate
committee of the Board (e.g. Risk Management Committee) on a regular
basis (quarterly or at more frequent intervals) all of its exposures to CCPs,
including exposures arising from trading through a CCP and exposures
arising from CCP membership obligations such as default fund
contributions.
(5) Unless the Reserve Bank requires otherwise, the trades with a former
QCCP shall continue to be capitalised as though they are with a QCCP for
a period not exceeding three months from the date it ceases to qualify as
a QCCP. After that time, the SPD’s exposures with such a central
counterparty must be capitalised according to rules applicable for non-
QCCP.
D.1.5.1 Exposures to Qualifying CCPs (QCCPs)
(i) Trade exposures :
a) Clearing member exposures to QCCPs
54. The following instructions shall be applicable:
22

(1) Where a SPD acts as a clearing member of a QCCP for its own purposes,
a risk weight of two per cent shall be applied to the SPD’s trade exposure to
the QCCP.
(2) The exposure amount for trade exposure in respect of OTC derivatives
transactions, exchange traded derivatives transactions and SFTs should be
calculated in accordance with the Current Exposure Method (CEM) for
derivatives as detailed in paragraphs 22 to 31 above and rules for capital
adequacy for Repo / Reverse Repo-style transactions prescribed in
paragraphs 32 to 51 above.
(3) Where settlement is legally enforceable on a net basis in an event of default
and regardless of whether the counterparty is insolvent or bankrupt, the total
replacement cost of all contracts relevant to the trade exposure determination
can be calculated as a net replacement cost if the applicable close-out netting
sets meet the requirements given below in paragraphs 63 and 64 of these
guidelines.
(4) SPDs should have to demonstrate that the conditions mentioned in
paragraphs 63 and 64 of the guidelines are fulfilled on a regular basis by
obtaining independent and reasoned legal opinion as regards legal certainty
of netting of exposures to QCCPs. SPDs shall also obtain from such QCCPs,
the legal opinion taken by the QCCPs on the legal certainty of their major
activities such as settlement finality, netting, collateral arrangements (including
margin arrangements); default procedures etc.
b) Clearing member exposures to clients
55. The clearing member will always capitalise its exposure to clients as bilateral
trades, irrespective of whether the clearing member guarantees the trade or acts as
an intermediary between the client and the QCCP. However, to recognize the shorter
close-out period for cleared transactions, clearing members can capitalize the
exposure to their clients by multiplying the exposure at default by a scalar which is not
less than 0.71.
c) Client SPD exposures to clearing member
56. Where a SPD is a client of the clearing member, and enters into a transaction with
the clearing member acting as a financial intermediary (i.e. the clearing member
23

completes an offsetting transaction with a QCCP), the client’s exposures to the
clearing member will receive the treatment applicable to the paragraph 54, if following
conditions are met:
(a) The offsetting transactions are identified by the QCCP as client transactions
and collateral to support them is held by the QCCP and / or the clearing member, as
applicable, under arrangements that prevent any losses to the client due to:
(i) the default or insolvency of the clearing member;
(ii) the default or insolvency of the clearing member’s other clients; and
(iii) the joint default or insolvency of the clearing member and any of its other
clients.
(b) The client SPD must obtain an independent, written and reasoned legal opinion
that concludes that, in the event of legal challenge, the relevant courts and
administrative authorities would find that the client would bear no losses on account
of the insolvency of an intermediary under the relevant law, including:
• the law(s) applicable to client SPD, clearing member and QCCP;
• the law of the jurisdiction(s) of the foreign countries in which the client SPD,
clearing member or QCCP are located
• the law that governs the individual transactions and collateral; and
• the law that governs any contract or agreement necessary to meet this
condition (a).
(c) Relevant laws, regulations, rules, contractual, or administrative arrangements
provide that the offsetting transactions with the defaulted or insolvent clearing
member are highly likely to continue to be indirectly transacted through the QCCP,
or by the QCCP, should the clearing member default or become insolvent. In such
circumstances, the client positions and collateral with the QCCP will be transferred
at the market value unless the client requests to close out the position at the market
value. In this context, it is clarified that if relevant laws, regulations, rules, contractual
or administrative agreements provide that trades are highly likely to be ported, this
condition can be considered to be met. If there is a clear precedent for transactions
being ported at a QCCP and intention of the participants is to continue this practice,
then these factors should be considered while assessing if trades are highly likely to
24

be ported. The fact that QCCP documentation does not prohibit client trades from
being ported is not sufficient to conclude that they are highly likely to be ported. Other
evidence such as the criteria mentioned in this paragraph is necessary to make this
claim.
57. Where a client is not protected from losses in the case that the clearing member
and another client of the clearing member jointly default or become jointly insolvent,
but all other conditions mentioned above are met and the concerned CCP is a QCCP,
a risk weight of four per cent will apply to the client’s exposure to the clearing member.
58. Where the client SPD does not meet the requirements in the above paragraphs,
the SPD should be required to capitalize its exposure to the clearing member as a
bilateral trade.
59. In case a SPD as a client enters into a transaction with the QCCP with a clearing
member guaranteeing its performance, the capital requirements for client SPD should
be calculated as if client SPD has entered into a bilateral contract with the clearing
member.
d) Treatment of posted collateral
60. The following instructions shall be applicable:
(i) In all cases, any assets or collateral posted must, from the perspective of the
SPD posting such collateral, receive the risk weights that otherwise applies to
such assets or collateral under the capital adequacy framework, regardless
of the fact that such assets have been posted as collateral. Where assets or
collateral of a clearing member or client are posted with a QCCP or a clearing
member and are not held in a bankruptcy remote manner, the SPD posting
such assets or collateral must also recognise credit risk based upon the
assets or collateral being exposed to risk of loss based on the
creditworthiness of the entity holding such assets or collateral.
Note: Where the entity holding such assets or collateral is the QCCP, a risk-
weight of two per cent applies to collateral included in the definition of trade
exposures. The relevant risk-weight of the QCCP will apply to assets or
collateral posted for other purposes.
(ii) Collateral posted by the clearing member (including cash, securities, other
pledged assets, and excess initial or variation margin, also called over-
25

collateralisation), that is held by a custodian, and is bankruptcy remote from
the QCCP, is not subject to a capital requirement for counterparty credit risk
exposure to such bankruptcy remote custodian.
Note: In this paragraph, the word “custodian” may include a trustee, agent,
pledgee, secured creditor or any other person that holds property in a way
that does not give such person a beneficial interest in such property and will
not result in such property being subject to legally-enforceable claims by such
persons, creditors, or to a court ordered stay of the return of such property,
should such person become insolvent or bankrupt.
(iii) Collateral posted by a client, that is held by a custodian, and is bankruptcy
remote from the QCCP, the clearing member and other clients, is not subject
to a capital requirement for counterparty credit risk. If the collateral is held at
the QCCP on a client’s behalf and is not held on a bankruptcy remote basis,
a two per cent risk weight will be applied to the collateral if the conditions
established in paragraph 56 are met. A risk weight of four per cent will be
made applicable if a client is not protected from losses in the case that the
clearing member and another client of the clearing member jointly default or
become jointly insolvent, but all other conditions mentioned in paragraph 56
are met.
(iv) If a clearing member collects collateral from a client for client cleared trades
and this collateral is passed on to the QCCP, the clearing member may
recognize this collateral for both the QCCP - clearing member leg and the
clearing member - client leg of the client cleared trade. Therefore, initial
margins (IMs) as posted by clients to clearing members mitigate the exposure
the clearing member has against these clients.
(ii) Default Fund Exposures to QCCPs
61. The following instructions shall be applicable:
(i) Where a default fund is shared between products or types of business with
settlement risk only (e.g. equities and bonds) and products or types of
business which give rise to counterparty credit risk i.e., OTC derivatives,
exchange traded derivatives or SFTs, all of the default fund contributions will
receive the risk weight determined according to the formulae and
26

methodology set forth below, without apportioning to different classes or types
of business or products.
(ii) However, where the default fund contributions from clearing members are
segregated by product types and only accessible for specific product types,
the capital requirements for those default fund exposures determined
according to the formulae and methodology set forth below must be
calculated for each specific product giving rise to counterparty credit risk. In
case the QCCP’s prefunded own resources are shared among product types,
the QCCP will have to allocate those funds to each of the calculations, in
proportion to the respective product specific exposure i.e. exposure at default.
(iii) Clearing member SPDs are required to capitalise their exposures arising from
default fund contributions to a qualifying CCP by applying the following
formula:
Clearing member SPDs are required to apply a risk-weight of 667 per cent to
their default fund exposures to the qualifying CCP, subject to an overall cap
on the risk-weighted assets from all its exposures to the QCCP (i.e. including
trade exposures) equal to 20 per cent of the trade exposures to the QCCP.
More specifically, the Risk Weighted Assets (RWA) for both PD i’s trade and
default fund exposures to each QCCP are equal to:
Min {(2% * TEi + 667% * DFi); (20% * TEi)}
Where;
-TEi is PD i’s trade exposure to the QCCP; and
-DFi is PD i's pre-funded contribution to the QCCP's default fund.
Note: The two per cent risk weight on trade exposures does not apply
additionally, as it is included in the equation.
D.1.5.2 Exposures to Non-qualifying CCPs
62. The following instructions shall be applicable:
(a) SPDs must apply the Standardised Approach for credit risk according to the
category of the counterparty, to their trade exposure to a non-qualifying CCP.
27

(b) SPDs must apply a risk weight of 667 per cent to their default fund contributions
to a nonqualifying CCP.
(c) For the purposes of this paragraph, the default fund contributions of such SPDs
will include both the funded and the unfunded contributions which are liable to be
paid should the CCP so require. Where there is a liability for unfunded
contributions (i.e. unlimited binding commitments) the Reserve Bank will
determine the amount of unfunded commitments to which an 667 per cent risk
weight should apply.
D.1.5.3 Requirements for Recognition of Net Replacement Cost in Close-out
Netting Sets
(a) For repo-style transactions
63. The effects of bilateral netting agreements covering repo-style transactions will be
recognised on a counterparty-by-counterparty basis if the agreements are legally
enforceable in each relevant jurisdiction upon the occurrence of an event of default
and regardless of whether the counterparty is insolvent or bankrupt. In addition, netting
agreements must:
(a) provide the non-defaulting party the right to terminate and close-out in a timely
manner all transactions under the agreement upon an event of default, including in
the event of insolvency or bankruptcy of the counterparty;
(b) provide for the netting of gains and losses on transactions (including the value
of any collateral) terminated and closed out under it so that a single net amount is
owed by one party to the other;
(c) allow for the prompt liquidation or setoff of collateral upon the event of default;
and
(d) be, together with the rights arising from the provisions required in (a) to (c)
above, legally enforceable in each relevant jurisdiction upon the occurrence of an
event of default and regardless of the counterparty's insolvency or bankruptcy.
(b) For Derivatives transactions
64. The following instructions shall be applicable:
(a) SPDs shall net transactions subject to novation under which any obligation
between a SPD and its counterparty to deliver a given currency on a given value
28

date is automatically amalgamated with all other obligations for the same
currency and value date, legally substituting one single amount for the previous
gross obligations.
(b) SPDs may also net transactions subject to any legally valid form of bilateral
netting not covered in (a), including other forms of novation.
(c) In both cases (a) and (b), a SPD will need to satisfy that it has:
(i) A netting contract or agreement with the counterparty which creates a single
legal obligation, covering all included transactions, such that the SPD would
have either a claim to receive or obligation to pay only the net sum of the
positive and negative mark-to-market values of included individual
transactions in the event a counterparty fails to perform due to any of the
following: default, bankruptcy, liquidation or similar circumstances;
(ii) Written and reasoned legal opinions that, in the event of a legal challenge, the
relevant courts and administrative authorities would find the SPD's exposure
to be such a net amount under:
• The law of the jurisdiction in which the counterparty is chartered and, if the
foreign branch of a counterparty is involved, then also under the law of the
jurisdiction in which the branch is located;
• The law that governs the individual transactions; and
• The law that governs any contract or agreement necessary to effect the
netting.
(iii) Procedures in place to ensure that the legal characteristics of netting
arrangements are kept under review in the light of possible changes in
relevant law.
(d) Contracts containing walkaway clauses will not be eligible for netting for the
purpose of calculating capital requirements under these guidelines. A walkaway
clause is a provision which permits a non-defaulting counterparty to make only
limited payments or no payment at all, to the estate of a defaulter, even if the
defaulter is a net creditor.
29

D.1.6 Foreign Exchange (FE) Contracts
65. Like the interest rate contracts, the outstanding contracts should be first multiplied
by a conversion factor as shown below:
CCF for Market-Related Off-Balance Sheet Items Residual CCF (per cent)
Maturity
Exchange Rate Contracts
One year or less 2.00
Over one year to five years 10.00
Over five years 15.00
66. This will then have to be again multiplied by the weights attributable to the relevant
counterparty as specified above.
67. When effective bilateral netting contracts as specified in paragraph 64 are in place,
the computation of credit exposure will be as detailed in paragraph 31.
D.1.7 Single Name Credit Default Swaps (CDS) on Corporate Bonds
68. For CDS related transactions, SPDs shall follow the capital adequacy guidelines
as per Annex IV.
D.1.8 Capital charge for Collateralised OTC derivatives transactions
69. The calculation of the counterparty credit risk charge for an individual contract will
be as follows:
counterparty charge = [max(0,(RC + add-on) – CA)] x r x 15%
where:
RC = the replacement cost,
add-on = the amount for potential future exposure calculated according to
paragraphs 22 to 31,
CA = the volatility adjusted collateral amount under the comprehensive approach
prescribed in paragraphs 42 to 51 or zero if no eligible collateral is applied to the
transaction,
and r = the risk weight of the counterparty.
70. When effective bilateral netting contracts are in place, RC will be the net
replacement cost and the add-on will be A as calculated according to paragraph
Net
30

31.The haircut for currency risk (Hfx) should be applied when there is a mismatch
between the collateral currency and the settlement currency. Even in the case where
there are more than two currencies involved in the exposure, collateral and settlement
currency, a single haircut assuming a 10-business day holding period scaled up as
necessary depending on the frequency of mark-to-market will be applied.
E. Measurement of Market Risk
71. The procedure for calculating capital charge for market risk is given below.
72. Market risk is defined as the risk of loss arising from movements in market prices
or rates away from the rates or prices set out in a transaction or agreement. The
objective in introducing the capital adequacy for market risk is to provide an explicit
capital cushion for the price risk to which the SPDs are exposed to in their portfolio.
73. The capital charge for market risks should be worked out by the standardised
approach and the internal risk management framework based Value at Risk (VaR)
model. The capital charge for market risk to be provided by SPDs would be higher of
the two requirements. However, where price data is not available for specific category
of assets, SPDs shall follow the standardised approach for computation of market risk.
In such a situation, SPDs should disclose to RBI, details of such assets and ensure
that consistency of approach is followed. SPDs should obtain RBI’s permission before
excluding any category of asset for calculations of market risk. SPDs would normally
consider the instruments of the nature of fixed deposits, commercial bills etc., for this
purpose. Such items will be held in the books till maturity and any diminution in the
value will have to be provided for in the books.
Note: In case of underwriting commitments, following points should be adhered to:
(1) In case of devolvement of underwriting commitment for G-Sec, 100 per cent of
the devolved amount would qualify for the measurement of market risk.
(2) In case of underwriting under merchant banking issues (other than G-Sec),
where price has been committed / frozen at the time of underwriting, the
commitment is to be treated as a contingent liability and 50 per cent of the
commitment should be included in the position for market risk. However, 100%
of devolved position should be subjected to market risk measurement.
31

74. The methodology for working out the capital charges for market risk on the
portfolio is as below:
E.1 Standardized Approach
75. Capital charge will be the measure of risk arrived at in terms of paragraphs 76 to
93, summed arithmetically.
E.1.1 For Fixed Income Instruments
76. Duration method shall apply. Under this, the price sensitivity of all interest rate
positions viz., Dated securities, Treasury bills, Commercial papers, PSU / FI /
Corporate Bonds, Special Bonds, Mutual Fund units and derivative instruments like
IRS, FRA, IRF etc., including underwriting commitments / devolvement and other
contingent liabilities having interest rate / equity risk will be captured.
77. In duration method, the capital charge is the sum of four components namely:
a) the net short or long position in the whole trading book;
b) a small proportion of the matched positions in each time-band
(the “vertical disallowance’’);
c) a larger proportion of the matched positions across different timebands
(the “horizontal disallowance’’);and
d) a net charge for positions in options, where appropriate.
Note 1: Since short position in India is allowed only in derivatives and G-Sec,
netting as indicated at (a) and the system of `disallowances’ as at (b) and (c)
above are applicable currently only to the PDs entering into FRAs / IRSs /
exchange traded derivatives and G-Sec.
78. However, under the duration method, SPDs with the necessary capability may,
with RBI’s permission use a more accurate method of measuring all of their general
market risks by calculating the price sensitivity of each position separately. SPDs
must select and use the method on a consistent basis and the system adopted will
be subjected to monitoring by the RBI. The mechanics of this method are as follows:
(1) first calculate the price sensitivity of all instruments in terms of a change in
interest rates between 0.6 and 1.0 per cent points depending on the duration
of the instrument (as per Table 1 given below );
32

(2) slot the resulting sensitivity measures into a duration-based ladder with the
thirteen time-bands set out in Table 1;
(3) subject the lower of the long and short positions in each time-band to a five
per cent capital charge towards vertical disallowance designed to capture
basis risk;
(4) carry forward the net positions in each time-band for horizontal offsetting
across the zones subject to the disallowances set out in Table 2.
Note 2: Points (3) and (4) above are applicable only where opposite positions
exist as explained at Note 1 above.
Table 1
Duration time-bands and assumed changes in yield (%)
Zone 1
0 to 1 month 1.00
1 to 3 months 1.00
3 to 6 months 1.00
6 to 12 months 1.00
Zone 2
1 to 2 years 0.95
2 to 3 years 0.90
3 to 4 years 0.85
Zone 3
4 to 5 years 0.85
5 to 7 years 0.80
7 to 10 years 0.75
10 to 15 years 0.70
15 to 20 years 0.65
Over 20 years 0.60
33

Table 2
Horizontal disallowances
Zones Time-band Within Between Between
the zone adjacent zones 1 and 3
zones
Zone 1 0 – month 40% 40% 100%
1 – 3 months
3 – 6 months
6 – 12 months
Zone 2 1 – 2 years 30%
2 – 3 years
3 – 4 years
Zone 3 4 – 5 years 30%
5 – 7 years
7 – 10 years
10 – 15 years
15 – 20 years
Over 20 years
The gross positions in each time-band will be subject to risk weighting as per
the assumed change in yield set out in Table 1, with no further offsets.
E.1.2 Capital charge for interest rate derivatives
79. The measurement system shall include all interest rate derivatives and off balance-
sheet instruments in the trading book which react to changes in interest rates, (e.g.
FRAs, other forward contracts, bond futures, interest rate positions).
E.1.2.1 Calculation of positions
80. Derivatives shall be converted into positions in the relevant underlying and
subjected to market risk charges as described above. In order to calculate the market
risk as per the standardized approach described above, the amounts reported should
be the market value of the principal amount of the underlying or of the notional
underlying.
34

E.1.2.2 Futures and Forward Contracts (including FRAs)
81. These instruments are treated as a combination of a long and a short position in a
notional government security. The maturity of a future contract or an FRA will be the
period until delivery or exercise of the contract, plus - where applicable - the life of the
underlying instrument. For example, a long position in a June three-month IRF taken
in April is to be reported as a long position in a government security with a maturity of
five months and a short position in a government security with a maturity of two
months. Where a range of deliverable instruments may be delivered to fulfill the
contract, the SPD has flexibility to elect which deliverable security goes into the
maturity or duration ladder but should take account of any conversion factor defined
by the exchange. In the case of a future on a corporate bond index, positions will be
included at the market value of the notional underlying portfolio of securities.
E.1.2.3 Swaps
82. Swaps will be treated as two notional positions in G-Sec with relevant maturities.
For example, an IRS under which a SPD is receiving floating rate interest and paying
fixed will be treated as a long position in a floating rate instrument of maturity
equivalent to the period until the next interest fixing and a short position in a fixed-rate
instrument of maturity equivalent to the residual life of the swap. For swaps that pay
or receive a fixed or floating interest rate against some other reference price, e.g. a
stock index, the interest rate component should be slotted into the appropriate re-
pricing maturity category, with the equity component being included in the equity
framework.
E.1.2.4 Calculation of capital charges
83. Allowable offsetting of matched positions - SPDs may exclude from the interest
rate maturity framework altogether (long and short positions, both actual and notional)
in identical instruments with exactly the same issuer, coupon and maturity. A matched
position in a future or forward and its corresponding underlying may also be fully offset,
and thus excluded from the calculation. When the future or the forward comprises a
range of deliverable instruments, offsetting of positions in the future or forward contract
and its underlying is only permissible in cases where there is a readily identifiable
underlying security which is most profitable for the trader with a short position to
deliver. The leg representing the time to expiry of the future should, however, be taken
35

into account. The price of this security, sometimes called the "cheapest-to-deliver",
and the price of the future or forward contract should in such cases move in close
alignment.
84. In addition, opposite positions in the same category of instruments can in certain
circumstances be regarded as matched and allowed to offset fully. To qualify for this
treatment the positions must relate to the same underlying instruments and be of the
same nominal value. In addition:
(1) For futures: offsetting positions in the notional or underlying instruments to
which the futures contract relates must be for identical products and mature
within seven days of each other;
(2) For swaps and FRAs: the reference rate (for floating rate positions) must
be identical and the coupon closely matched (i.e. within 15 basis points); and
(3) For swaps, FRAs and forwards: the next interest fixing date or, for fixed
coupon positions or forwards, the residual maturity must correspond within
the following limits:
• less than one month hence: same day;
• between one month and one year hence: within seven days;
• over one year hence: within thirty days.
85. SPDs with large swap books may use alternative formulae for these swaps to
calculate the positions to be included in the duration ladder. One method would be to
first convert the payments required by the swap into their present values. For that
purpose, each payment shall be discounted using zero coupon yields, and a single
net figure for the present value of the cash flows entered into the appropriate time-
band using procedures that apply to zero (or low) coupon bonds; these figures should
be slotted into the general market risk framework as set out earlier. An alternative
method would be to calculate the sensitivity of the net present value implied by the
change in yield used in the duration method and allocate these sensitivities into the
time-bands set out in Table 1. Other methods which produce similar results could also
be used. Such alternative treatments will, however, only be allowed if:
• the supervisory authority is fully satisfied with the accuracy of the systems being
used;
36

• the positions calculated fully reflect the sensitivity of the cash flows to interest
rate changes and are entered into the appropriate time-bands;
86. General market risk applies to positions in all derivative products in the same
manner as for cash positions, subject only to an exemption for fully or very closely-
matched positions in identical instruments as defined in above paragraphs. The
various categories of instruments shall be slotted into the maturity ladder and treated
according to the rules identified earlier.
E.1.3 Capital charge for equity positions
87. SPDs shall calculate the capital charge for market risk on equity and equity
derivatives using the Internal Models approach only.
E.1.3.1 Equity positions
88. This section sets out a minimum capital standard to cover the risk of holding or
taking positions in equities by the SPDs. It applies to long and short positions in all
instruments that exhibit market behaviour similar to equities, but not to nonconvertible
preference shares (which will be covered by the interest rate risk requirements). Long
and short positions in the same issue shall be reported on a net basis. The instruments
covered include equity shares, convertible securities that behave like equities, i.e.,
units of Mutual Funds and commitments to buy or sell equities. The equity or equity
like positions including those arrived at in relation to equity / index derivatives as
described in following sections shall be included in the duration ladder below one
month.
E.1.3.2 Equity derivatives
89. Equity derivatives and off balance-sheet positions which are affected by changes
in equity prices should be included in the measurement system. This includes futures
and swaps on both individual equities and on stock indices.
90. The derivatives are to be converted into positions in the relevant underlying.
E.1.3.3 Calculation of positions
91. In order to calculate the market risk, positions in derivatives should be converted
into notional equity positions:
37

(1) futures and forward contracts relating to individual equities should in principle
be reported at current market prices;
(2) futures relating to stock indices should be reported as the marked-to-market
value of the notional underlying equity portfolio;
(3) equity swaps are to be treated as two notional positions.
E.1.4 Capital Charge for Foreign Exchange (FE) Position:
92. Under the standardised approach, SPDs shall maintain a market risk capital
charge of 15 per cent for net open positions (limits or actual, whichever is higher)
arising out of forex business with a risk weight of 100 per cent. The net open position
for foreign exchange exposures shall be calculated as per the methodology prescribed
in paragraph 199 of Reserve Bank of India (Commercial Banks - Prudential Norms on
Capital Adequacy), 2025 to the extent applicable to SPDs.
93. Further, as SPDs have been permitted to raise resources under FCNR (B) loan
route, subject to prescribed guidelines, they may end up holding open FE positions.
Such open positions in equivalent rupees arrived at by marking to market at FEDAI
rates will be subject to a flat market risk charge of 15 per cent and be part of the
positions stated above.
E.2 Internal risk management framework based method
94. The SPDs should calculate the capital requirement based on their internal risk
management framework based VaR model for market risk, as per the following
minimum parameters:
(1) VaR must be computed on a daily basis at a 99th percentile, one-tailed
confidence interval.
(2) An instantaneous price shock equivalent to a 15-day movement in prices is
to be used, i.e. the minimum "holding period" will be 15 trading days.
(3) Interest rate sensitivity of the entire portfolio should be captured on an
integrated basis by including all fixed income securities like G-Sec,
Corporate / PSU bonds, CPs and derivatives like IRS, FRAs, IRFs, etc.,
based on the mapping of the cash flows to work out the portfolio VaR.
Wherever data for calculating volatilities is not available, SPDs shall
calculate the volatilities of such instruments using the G-Sec yield curve with
38

appropriate spread. However, the details of such instruments and the
spreads applied have to be reported and consistency of methodology should
be ensured.
(4) Instruments which are part of trading book, but found difficult to be subjected
to measurement of market risk shall be applied a flat market risk measure of
15 per cent. These include units of Mutual Funds, unquoted equity, etc., and
should be added arithmetically to the measure obtained under VaR in respect
of other instruments.
(5) Underwriting commitments as explained in the note of Paragraph 73 should
also be mapped into the VaR framework for risk measurement purposes.
(6) The unhedged FE position arising out of the foreign currency borrowings
under FCNR (B) loans scheme would carry a market risk of 15 per cent as
hitherto and the measure obtained will be added arithmetically to the VaR
measure obtained for other instruments.
(7) The choice of historical observation period (sample period) for calculating
VaR will be constrained to a minimum length of one year and not less than
250 trading days. For SPDs who use a weighting scheme or other methods
for the historical observation period, the "effective" observation period must
be at least one year (that is, the weighted average time lag of the individual
observations cannot be less than 6 months).
(8) The capital requirement will be the higher of:
(i) the previous day's VaR number measured according to the
above parameters specified in this section; and
(ii) the average of the daily VaR measures on each of the preceding
60 business days, multiplied by a multiplication factor
prescribed by the RBI (3.3 presently).
(9) No particular type of model is prescribed. So long as the model used
captures all the material risks run by the SPDs, they will be free to use
models, based, for example, on variance-covariance matrices, historical
simulations, Monte Carlo simulations or Extreme Value Theory (EVT), etc.
39

(10) The criteria for use of internal model to measure market risk capital charge
are given by Internal Debt Management Department of the Bank.
F. Capital Adequacy requirements
95. The capital charge for credit risk and market risk as given above shall be
maintained at all times.
96. In calculating eligible capital, it will be necessary first to calculate the SPD’s
minimum capital requirement for credit risk, and thereafter its market risk requirement,
to establish how much Tier 1 and Tier 2 capital is available to support market risk. Of
the 15% capital charge for credit risk, at least 50% shall be met by Tier 1 capital, that
is, the total of Tier 2 capital, if any, shall not exceed one hundred per cent of Tier 1
capital, at any point of time, for meeting the capital charge for credit risk.
97. Subordinated debt as Tier 2 capital shall not exceed 50 per cent of Tier 1 capital.
98. The total of Tier 2 capital shall not exceed 100 per cent of Tier 1 capital.
99. Eligible capital will be the sum of the whole of the SPD’s Tier 1 capital, plus all of
its Tier 2 capital under the limits imposed, as summarized above.
100. The overall capital adequacy ratio will be calculated by establishing an explicit
numerical link between the credit risk and the market risk factors, by multiplying the
market risk capital charge with 6.67 i.e. the reciprocal of the minimum credit risk capital
charge of 15 per cent.
101. The resultant figure shall be added to the sum of risk weighted assets worked out
for credit risk purpose. The numerator for calculating the overall ratio will be the SPD’s
total capital funds (Tier 1 and Tier 2 capital, after applicable deductions, if any). The
calculation of capital charge is illustrated in Annex II
G. Internal Capital Adequacy Assessment Process (ICAAP)
102. SPD shall refer to Para 54 of Reserve Bank of India (Non-Banking Financial
Companies – Prudential Norms on Capital Adequacy) Directions, 2025.
H. Diversification of SPD Activities
103. The guidelines on diversification of activities by SPDs shall be as prescribed in
these Directions.
104. The capital charge for market risk (calculated as per provisions of these
Directions) for the activities defined below shall not be more than 20 per cent of the
Net Owned Fund (NOF) of the SPD as per the last audited balance sheet:
40

(i) Investment / trading in equity and equity derivatives
(ii) Investment in units of equity oriented mutual funds
(iii) Underwriting public issues of equity
(iv) Participation in Currency Futures Market
(v) Offering foreign exchange market-making facilities to users, as currently
permitted to Category-I Authorized Dealers.
105. SPDs shall calculate the capital charge for market risk on the stock positions/
underlying stock positions/units of equity oriented mutual funds using Internal Models
(VaR based) as per the directions contained in Annex VIII of the Operational
Guidelines for Primary Dealers issued vide Master Direction
IDMD.PDRD.01/03.64.00/2016-17 dated July 01, 2016. As regards credit risk arising
out of exposure in equity, equity derivatives and equity oriented mutual funds, SPDs
shall calculate the capital charge as per the guidelines prescribed above.
41

Chapter IV – Sources and Application of Funds
A. Sources of funds
106. SPDs are permitted to borrow funds from call / notice / term money market, repo
(including CBLO) market, Inter-Corporate Deposits, FCNR (B) loans, Commercial
Paper and Non-Convertible Debentures. They are also eligible for liquidity support
from the Reserve Bank.
A.1 Call / Notice Market
107. SPDs are allowed to borrow from call / notice market, on an average in a
‘reporting fortnight’, up to 225 per cent of their NOF as at the end March of the
preceding financial year. They may lend up to 25 per cent of their NOF in call / notice
money market, on an average in a ‘reporting fortnight’. These limits on borrowing and
lending are subject to periodic review by the Bank. SPDs are governed by the
provisions of the Master Direction - Reserve Bank of India (Call, Notice and Term
Money Markets) Directions, 2021 dated April 01, 2021.
A.2 Inter-Corporate Deposits (ICDs)
108. ICDs may be raised by SPDs as per their funding needs. The SPDs shall put in
place a Board approved policy for ICDs which takes due consideration of the
associated risks and shall include the following general principles:
(1) The ICD borrowings shall in no case exceed 150 per cent of the NOF as at the
end of March of the preceding financial year.
(2) ICDs accepted by SPD shall be for a minimum period of one week.
(3) ICDs accepted from parent / promoter / group companies or any other related
party shall be on ‘arm’s length basis’ and disclosed in financial statements as
"related party transactions".
(4) Funds raised through ICDs are subject to ALM discipline.
109. SPDs are prohibited from placing funds in ICD market.
42

A.3 FCNR (B) loans / External Commercial Borrowing
110. SPDs may avail of FCNR(B) loans up to a maximum of 25 per cent of the NOF
as at the end of March of the preceding financial year and subject to the foreign
exchange risk of such loans being hedged at all times at least to the extent of 50 per
cent of the exposure.
111. SPDs shall maintain the necessary capital as required under these directions due
to these exposures.
112. SPDs are not permitted to raise funds through External Commercial Borrowings.
A.4 Non-Convertible Debentures (NCDs)
113. SPDs may issue NCDs of maturity up to one year, without the requirement of
having a working capital limit with a bank. They shall be governed by the directions,
Master Direction – Reserve Bank of India (Commercial Paper and Non-Convertible
Debentures of original or initial maturity upto one year) Directions, 2024 dated January
03, 2024.
A.5 Commercial Paper
114. Issuance of Commercial Paper by SPDs shall be as per “Guidelines for Issue of
Commercial Paper” issued vide Master Direction – Reserve Bank of India
(Commercial Paper and Non-Convertible Debentures of original or initial maturity upto
one year) Directions, 2024 dated January 03, 2024.
B. Application of Funds
115. SPDs are permitted to undertake a set of core and non-core activities. SPDs
which undertake only the core activities shall maintain a minimum NOF of ₹150 crore.
SPDs which also undertake non-core activities shall maintain a minimum NOF of ₹250
crore.
116. The investment in G-Sec must have predominance over the non-core activities
in terms of investment pattern. SPDs shall ensure predominance by maintaining at
least 50 per cent of their total financial investments (both long term and short term) in
G-Sec at any point of time. Investment in G-Sec shall include the SPD’s Own Stock,
Stock with the Reserve Bank under Liquidity Support / Intra-day Liquidity (IDL) / LAF,
Stock with market for repo borrowings and G-Sec pledged with the CCIL.
117. An SPD’s investment in G-Sec (including T-Bills and CMBs) and Corporate Bond
(to the extent of 50 per cent of NOF) on a daily basis shall be at least equal to its net
43

call / notice / repo (including CBLO) borrowing plus net RBI borrowing (through LAF /
Intra-Day Liquidity / Liquidity Support) plus the minimum prescribed NOF.
118. The following are permitted under core activities:
(1) Dealing and underwriting in G-Sec,
(2) Dealing in Interest Rate Derivatives,
(3) Providing broking services in G-Sec,
(4) Dealing and underwriting in Corporate / PSU / FI bonds / debentures,
(5) Lending in Call / Notice / Term / Repo / CBLO market,
(6) Investment in Commercial Papers (CPs),
(7) Investment in Certificates of Deposit (CDs),
(8) Investment in Security Receipts issued by Asset Reconstruction
Companies, Asset Backed Securities (ABS), Mortgage Backed Securities
(MBS),
(9) Investment in debt mutual funds where entire corpus is invested in debt
securities,
(10) Investments in NCDs, and
(11) Dealing in Credit Default Swaps.
119. SPDs are permitted to undertake the following non-core activities:
(1) Activities which are expected to consume capital such as:
(i) Investment / trading in equity and equity derivatives market,
(ii) Investment in units of equity oriented mutual funds,
(iii) Underwriting public issues of equity,
(iv) Participation in Currency Futures Market, and
(v) offer foreign exchange market-making facilities to users, as currently
permitted to Category-I Authorized Dealers.
(2) Services which may not require significant capital outlay such as:
(i) Professional Clearing Services,
44

(ii) Portfolio Management Services,
(iii) Issue Management Services,
(iv) Merger & Acquisition Advisory Services,
(v) Private Equity Management Services,
(vi) Project Appraisal Services,
(vii) Loan Syndication Services,
(viii) Debt restructuring services,
(ix) Consultancy Services,
(x) Distribution of mutual fund units, and
(xi) Distribution of insurance products.
(3) Specific approvals of other regulators, if needed, shall be obtained for
undertaking the activities detailed above.
(4) SPDs are not allowed to undertake broking in equity, trading / broking in
commodities and gold.
(5) The exposure to non-core activities shall be subject to the regulatory and
prudential norms for diversification of activities by SPD as provided for in the
Directions.
(6) SPDs choosing to diversify into non-core business segments shall define
internally the scope of diversification, organization structure and reporting
levels for those segments. They shall clearly lay down exposure and risk
limits for those segments in their Board approved investment policy.
The exposure to core and non-core activities of SPD shall be subject to risk capital
allocation (credit risk and market risk) as prescribed in Chapter III of these Directions.
45

B.1 Norms for Ready Forward transactions
120. SPDs are permitted to participate in ready forward (Repo) market both as lenders
and borrowers in corporate debt securities and Government securities subject to
directions issued by FMRD vide Master Direction – Reserve Bank of India
(Repurchase Transactions (Repo)) Directions, 2025 dated November 11, 2025 and by
IDMD vide Master Direction – Operational Guidelines for Primary Dealers dated July
01, 2016, as amended from time to time. Further, such SPDs participating in repo
transactions shall comply with guidelines on uniform accounting for repo / reverse repo
transactions issued by FMRD vide Master Direction – Reserve Bank of India
(Repurchase Transactions (Repo)) Directions, 2025 dated November 11, 2025 and
FMRD.DIRD.10/14.03.002/2015-16 dated May 19, 2016, as amended from time to
time.
121. An SPD shall not enter into a repo in Corporate Debt Securities with its own
constituent or facilitate a repo between two of its constituents
122. Listed companies can enter into repo transactions subject to the following
condition:
Where the listed company is a 'buyer' of securities in the first leg of the repo contract
(i.e. lender of funds), the custodian through which the repo transaction is settled should
block these securities in the gilt account and ensure that these securities are not
further sold or re-repoed during the repo period but are held for delivery under the
second leg.
B.2 Guidelines on Interest Rate Derivatives
123. SPDs shall adhere to the guidelines applicable to interest rate derivatives as laid
down in Master Direction – Reserve Bank of India (Market-makers in OTC Derivatives)
Directions, 2021, and Rupee Interest Rate Derivatives (Reserve Bank) Directions,
2019 dated June 26, 2019, as amended from time to time.
SPDs are allowed to deal in Interest Rate Futures (IRFs) for both hedging and trading
on own account and not on client’s account, as given in the Rupee Interest Rate
Derivatives (Reserve Bank) Directions, 2019 dated June 26, 2019, as amended from
time to time.
124. SPDs shall report all their IRS / FRA trades, except with clients, on the CCIL
reporting platform within 30 minutes from the deal time. Further, all transaction with
46

clients in INR FRA / IRS shall be reported as per the timelines prescribed in Master
Direction - Risk Management and Inter-Bank Dealings dated July 05, 2016.
B.3 Guidelines on Credit Default Swaps
125. SPDs can undertake transactions in CDS, both as market-makers as well as
users. As a user, SPD can use CDS to hedge credit risk in corporate bonds held in its
trading book. The guidelines on capital adequacy and exposure norms for CDS are
detailed in Annex IV. SPDs intending to act as market makers in CDS shall fulfil the
following criteria:
(1) Minimum Net Owned Funds of ₹500 crore
(2) Minimum CRAR of 15 percent
(3) Have robust risk management systems in place to deal with various risks
126. The regulatory approval to SPDs to act as market makers in the CDS market
would be accorded by Department of Regulation, Central office, RBI, Mumbai on a
case by case basis, on application for the same.
B.4 Guidelines on investments in non-G-Sec
127. SPDs shall adhere to guidelines on investments in non-G-Sec (including capital
gain bonds, bonds eligible for priority sector status, bonds issued by Central or State
public sector undertakings with or without Government guarantees and bonds issued
by banks and financial companies) generally issued by corporate, banks, FIs and
State and Central Government sponsored institutions, Special Purpose Vehicles
(SPVs), etc. The guidelines will apply to investments both in the primary and
secondary market. These guidelines will, however, not be applicable to :
(1) units of equity oriented mutual fund schemes where any part of the corpus
can be invested in equity,
(2) venture capital funds,
(3) CPs,
(4) CDs, and
(5) investments in equity shares.
47

128. SPDs are permitted to become members of SEBI approved Stock Exchanges for
the purpose of undertaking proprietary transactions in corporate bonds. While doing
so, SPDs shall comply with all the regulatory norms laid down by SEBI and all the
eligibility criteria / rules of stock exchanges.
129. In terms of instructions contained in the Master Direction – Operational
Guidelines for Primary Dealers issued vide Master Direction
IDMD.PDRD.01/03.64.00/2016-17 dated July 01, 2016, SPDs are allowed a sub-limit
of 50 per cent of NOF for investment in corporate bonds within the overall permitted
average fortnightly limit of 225 per cent of NOF as at the end of March of the preceding
financial year for call / notice money market borrowing.
130. SPDs shall not invest in non-G-Sec of original maturity of less than one year,
other than NCDs, CPs and CDs, as provided for in Master Direction - Reserve Bank
of India (Call, Notice and Term Money Markets) Directions, 2021 dated April 01, 2021
and Master Direction – Reserve Bank of India (Commercial Paper and Non-
Convertible Debentures of original or initial maturity upto one year) Directions, 2024
dated January 03, 2024. SPDs are permitted to invest in NCDs with original or initial
maturity up to one year issued by the corporates (including NBFCs). However, their
investments in such unlisted NCDs shall not exceed 10 per cent of the size of their
non-G-Sec portfolio on an on-going basis. While investing in such instruments, SPDs
shall be guided by the extant prudential guidelines in force and instructions contained
in the Master Direction – Reserve Bank of India (Commercial Paper and Non-
Convertible Debentures of original or initial maturity upto one year) Directions, 2024
dated January 03, 2024, as amended from time to time.
131. SPDs shall undertake usual due diligence in respect of investments in non-G-
Sec.
132. SPDs shall not invest in unrated non-G-Sec.
133. SPDs shall abide by the requirements stipulated by SEBI in respect of corporate
debt securities. Accordingly, while making fresh investments in non-Government debt
securities, SPDs shall ensure that such investments are made only in listed debt
securities, except to the extent indicated in paragraph 132 above.
134. SPD's investment in unlisted non-G-Sec shall not exceed 10 per cent of the size
of their non-G-Sec portfolio on an on-going basis. The ceiling of 10 per cent shall be
inclusive of investment in Security Receipts issued by Securitization Companies /
Reconstruction Companies and also the investment in ABS and MBS. The unlisted
48

non-Government debt securities in which SPDs shall invest up to the limits specified
above, should comply with the disclosure requirements as prescribed by the SEBI for
listed companies.
135. As per SEBI guidelines, all trades with the exception of the spot transactions, in
a listed debt security, shall be executed only on the trading platform of a stock
exchange. All entities regulated by the Reserve Bank shall report their secondary
market OTC trades in Corporate Bonds and Securitized Debt Instruments within 15
minutes of the trade on any of the stock exchanges (NSE, BSE and MCX-SX). These
trades may be cleared and settled through any of the clearing corporations (NSCCL,
ICCL and MCXSX CCL).
136. SPDs shall ensure that their investment policies are formulated after taking into
account all the relevant issues specified in the guidelines on investment in non-G-Sec.
They should put in place proper risk management systems for capturing and analysing
the risk in respect of non-G-Sec before making investments and taking remedial
measures in time. SPDs shall also put in place appropriate systems to ensure that
investment in privately placed instruments is made in accordance with the systems
and procedures prescribed under respective SPD’s investment policy.
137. Boards of the SPDs shall review the following aspects of investment in non-GSec
at least at quarterly intervals:
(1) Total business (investment and divestment) during the reporting period.
(2) Compliance with the prudential limits as well as prudential guidelines
prescribed by the Board for investment in non-G-Sec.
(3) Rating migration of the issuers / issues held in the SPD’s books.
138. In order to help creation of a central database on private placement of debt, a
copy of all offer documents shall be filed with all the Credit Information Companies
(CICs) by the SPDs. Further, any default relating to interest / instalment in respect of
any privately placed debt shall also be reported to all CICs by the investing SPDs
along with a copy of the offer document.
B.5 Investment / trading in equity and equity derivatives market
139. SPDs are permitted to take up trading and self-clearing membership with SEBI
approved stock exchanges / clearing corporations for undertaking proprietary
transactions in equity and equity derivatives market as permitted under paragraph 119
49

of these Directions. While doing so, SPDs shall comply with all the regulatory norms
laid down by SEBI and all the eligibility criteria / rules of stock exchanges and clearing
corporations.
B.6 Portfolio Management Services by SPDs
140. SPDs may offer Portfolio Management Services (PMS) to their clients under the
SEBI scheme of PMS, subject to the following conditions:
(1) Before undertaking PMS, the SPD must have obtained the Certificate of
Registration as Portfolio Manager from the SEBI and also a specific approval
from the Reserve Bank.
(2) PMS cannot be offered to any RBI regulated entity. However, advisory services
can be provided to them with suitable disclaimers.
(3) Where applicable, the clients regulated by any other authority should obtain
clearance from the regulatory or any other authority before entering into any
PMS arrangement with the SPD.
(4) SPDs are required to comply with the SEBI (Portfolio Managers) Regulations,
2020 and any amendments issued thereto or instructions issued there under.
141. SPDs shall adhere to the under noted conditions:
(1) A clear mandate from the PMS clients shall be obtained and the same shall be
strictly followed. In particular, there should be full understanding on risk disclosures,
loss potential and the costs (fees and commissions) involved.
(2) PMS shall be entirely at the customer's risk without guaranteeing, either directly
or indirectly, any return.
(3) Funds / securities, each time they are placed with the SPD for portfolio
management, shall not be accepted for a period less than one year.
(4) Portfolio funds shall not be deployed for lending in call / notice / term money /
Bills rediscounting markets, badla financing or lending to / placement with corporate
/ noncorporate bodies.
(5) Client-wise accounts / records of funds accepted for management and
investments made there against shall be maintained and the clients shall be entitled
to get statements of account at frequent intervals.
50

(6) Investments and funds belonging to PMS clients shall be kept segregated and
distinct from each other and from those of the SPD. As far as possible, all client
transactions shall be executed in the market and not off-set internally, either with the
SPD or any other client. All transactions between the SPD and any PMS client or
between two PMS clients shall be strictly at market rates.
B.7 Trading of G-Sec on Stock Exchanges
142. With a view to encouraging wider participation of all classes of investors,
including retail, in G-Sec, trading in G-Sec through a nationwide, anonymous, order
driven screen based trading system on stock exchanges, in the same manner in which
trading takes place in equities, has been permitted. Accordingly, trading of dated G-
Sec in demat form is allowed on automated order driven system of the National Stock
Exchange (NSE) of India, the Bombay Stock Exchange Ltd., Mumbai (BSE), the Over
the Counter Exchange of India (OTCEI) and the MCX Stock Exchange. This trading
facility is in addition to the reporting / trading facility in the NDS. Being a parallel
system, the trades concluded on the exchanges will be cleared by their respective
clearing corporations / clearing houses.
143. SPDs shall play an active role in providing liquidity to the G-Sec market and
promote retailing. They shall, therefore, make full use of the facility to distribute G-Sec
to all categories of investors through the process of placing and picking-up orders on
the exchanges. SPDs may open demat accounts with a Depository Participant (DP)
of NSDL / CDSL in addition to their accounts with RBI. Value free transfer of securities
between SGL / CSGL and own demat account is enabled by PDO-Mumbai subject to
guidelines issued by Department of Government and Bank Accounts (DGBA), RBI.
144. For trading of G-Sec on Stock Exchanges the following shall be adhered to by
SPDs:
(1) SPDs shall take specific approval from their Board to enable them to trade in the
Stock Exchanges.
(2) SPDs shall undertake transactions only on the basis of giving and taking delivery
of securities.
(3) Brokers / trading members shall not be involved in the settlement process. All
trades shall be settled either directly with clearing corporation / clearing house (in
case they are clearing members) or else through clearing member custodians.
51

(4) The trades done through any single broker shall also be subject to the current
regulations on transactions done through brokers.
(5) A standardized settlement on T+1 basis of all outright secondary market
transactions in G-Sec has been adopted to provide the participants more
processing time for transactions and to help in better funds as well as risk
management.
(6) In the case of repo transactions in G-Sec, however, market participants will have
the choice of settling the first leg on either T+0 basis or T+1 basis, as per their
requirements.
(7) Any settlement failure on account of non-delivery of securities / non-availability of
clear funds will be treated as SGL bouncing and the current penalties in respect
of SGL transactions will be applicable. Stock Exchanges will report such failures
to the respective PDOs.
(8) SPDs who are trading members of the Stock Exchanges may have to put up
margins on behalf of their non-institutional client trades. Such margins are required
to be collected from the respective clients. SPDs shall not pay up margins on
behalf of their client trades and incur overnight credit exposure to their clients. In
so far as the intraday exposures on clients for margins are concerned, the SPDs
shall be conscious of the underlying risks in such exposures.
(9) SPDs who intend to offer clearing / custodial services shall take specific approval
from SEBI in this regard. Similarly, SPDs who intend to take trading membership
of the Stock Exchanges shall satisfy the criteria laid down by SEBI and the Stock
Exchanges.
B.8 Participation of SPDs in Currency Futures Market
145. SPDs are permitted to deal in currency futures contracts traded on recognized
exchanges subject to the following conditions:
(1) Eligibility
(i) Exposure to currency futures shall be treated as a non-core activity for SPDs and
only SPDs having a minimum Net Owned Fund of ₹250 crore or any amount as
prescribed for undertaking diversified activity shall be allowed to participate in
currency futures.
52

(ii) As prescribed in the Directions on capital requirements, the capital charge for
market risk for the non-core activities (including currency futures) which are
expected to consume capital shall not be more than 20 percent of the NOF as
per last audited balance sheet (i.e., limit as specified in paragraph 102 of these
Directions).
(iii) SPDs shall be guided by the instructions specified in Master Direction - Risk
Management and Inter-Bank Dealings dated July 05, 2016 (as amended from
time to time), to the extent applicable to SPDs.
(2) Membership: SPDs are permitted to participate in the currency futures market
either as clients or direct trading / clearing members of the currency derivatives
segment of the Stock Exchanges recognized by SEBI.
(3) Position limits: SPDs are permitted to take long and short positions in the currency
futures market with or without having an underlying exposure subject to the position
limits specified by the exchanges. However, the aggregate gross open positions
across all contracts in all the stock exchanges in the respective currency pairs shall
not exceed the limits as mentioned below:
Currency Pairs Position Limits
USD-INR Gross open position across all contracts shall not exceed 15
per cent of the total open interest or USD 50 million,
whichever is higher.
EUR-INR Gross open position across all contracts shall not exceed 15
per cent of the total open interest or EUR 25 million,
whichever is higher.
GBP-INR Gross open position across all contracts shall not exceed 15
per cent of the total open interest or GBP 25 million,
whichever is higher.
JPY-INR Gross open position across all contracts shall not exceed 15
per cent of the total open interest or JPY 1000 million,
whichever is higher.
(4) Risk Management
(i) SPDs shall lay down detailed guidelines on risk management including exposure,
risk limits and reporting requirements with Board's approval for conduct of this
activity and management of risks.
(ii) SPDs shall put in place appropriate system to ensure strict adherence to the
above prescribed position limits.
53

(iii) SPDs shall maintain adequate infrastructure in terms of systems and manpower
for participation in currency futures.
(5) General
(i) For capital adequacy purpose, SPDs shall adhere to the guidelines given in
paragraphs 18 to 94 of these Directions and other instructions prescribed in these
Directions for providing capital charge for various risks arising from outstanding
contracts. Since currency futures contracts would be subject to CCP clearing of
the authorised stock exchanges, capital charge for credit risk shall be calculated
as per methodology prescribed for calculation of capital charge for exposure
towards CCP in paragraph 52 to 64 of these Directions. The Credit Conversion
Factor to be used for exchange rate contracts shall be as per paragraph 65 to 67
of these Directions. Further, as prescribed in the existing capital adequacy
guidelines, the capital charge for market risk in foreign exchange shall be worked
out by the standardised approach and the internal risk management framework-
based Value at Risk (VaR) model, and the capital charge for market risk shall be
higher of the two requirements. Under the standardised approach, SPDs shall
calculate the capital charge for market risk in foreign exchange exposures as per
instructions contained in paragraph 92 to 93. The capital charge for market risk
shall be over and above the capital charge for credit risk, maintained as per
instructions in these Directions.
(ii) In case of failure to meet the obligations of Primary Dealership business in the
Government securities market or any other violations leading to supervisory
concern, the Bank reserves the right to impose restrictions or withdraw
permission to deal in currency futures contracts.
B.9 Foreign exchange business
146. SPDs are permitted to offer all foreign exchange market-making facilities to
users, as currently permitted to Category-I Authorized Dealers, subject to adherence
to the following prudential and other regulations / guidelines applicable to them. Such
activities shall be part of their non-core activities. The SPDs shall adhere to the
following prudential regulations:
(1) SPDs, while calculating the total risk weighted assets, shall include the forex
exposures for maintenance of minimum Capital to Risk-Weighted Assets Ratio
(CRAR) of 15 percent on an ongoing basis. The capital charge for credit risk
54

shall be arrived as per the instructions contained in Paragraphs 65 to 67 of
these Directions.
(2) As prescribed in the existing capital adequacy guidelines, the capital charge for
market risk in foreign exchange exposures shall be higher of the charges
worked out by the standardised approach and the internal risk management
framework-based Value at Risk (VaR) model. Further, under the standardised
approach, SPDs shall maintain the capital charge for market risk in foreign
exchange exposures as per instructions contained in paragraphs 92 and 93 of
these directions. The capital charge for market risk shall be over and above the
capital charge for credit risk, maintained as per instructions in these Directions.
(3) In addition to the foreign exchange exposure limits prescribed under Master
Direction – Risk Management & Inter-Bank Dealings dated July 05, 2016 (as
amended from time to time), the capital charge for market risk for all the
permissible non-core activities, including foreign exchange activities, shall not
be more than 20 per cent of the NOF of the SPD as per last audited balance
sheet (i.e., limit as specified in paragraphs 104 of these Directions).
147. With effect from January 01, 2023 all financial transactions involving the Rupee
undertaken globally by related entities of the SPDs shall be reported to CCIL’s Trade
Repository before 12:00 noon of the business day following the date of transaction.
148. SPDs desirous of undertaking foreign exchange market-making facilities may
approach the Reserve Bank of India, Foreign Exchange Department, Central Office,
Mumbai for the necessary authorization.
149. While offering foreign exchange market-making facilities to users, SPDs shall
comply with the provisions of the Foreign Exchange Management Act 1999, and all
rules, regulations and directions issued thereunder; and also, the following directions,
to the extent applicable, in respect of foreign exchange products allowed to them:
(1) Master Direction on Risk Management and Inter-Bank Dealings, as amended
from time to time.
(2) Master Direction – Reserve Bank of India (Market-makers in OTC
Derivatives) Directions, 2021, as amended from time to time, and
(3) Guidelines for Internal Control over Foreign Exchange Business
(FE.CO.FMD.No.18380/02.03.137/2010-11 dated February 3, 2011), as
amended from time to time.
55

150. SPDs shall frame a Board approved policy to undertake and monitor the foreign
exchange business.
151. It may be noted that in case of failure of SPDs to meet the obligations of Primary
Dealership (PD) business in the Government securities market or any other violations
on regulations on conducting the PD business, the Reserve Bank reserves the right
to impose restrictions or withdraw permission to undertake the foreign exchange
business.
B.10 Distribution of mutual fund units
152. SPDs registered with the Bank are allowed to distribute mutual fund products
subject to compliance with the SEBI guidelines/ regulations, including its code of
conduct, for distribution of mutual fund products. SPD shall refer paragraphs 50 to 51
of Reserve Bank of India (Non-Banking Financial Companies – Undertaking of
Financial Services) Directions, 2025.
B.11 Distribution of Insurance products
153. For distribution of insurance products, SPDs are advised to make an application
along with necessary particulars duly certified by their statutory auditors to the
Regional Office of Department of Supervision under whose jurisdiction the registered
office of the SPD is situated. SPDs may take up insurance agency business on fee
basis and without risk participation, without the approval of the Bank subject to the
certain eligibility conditions. SPD shall refer paragraphs 26 to 33 of Reserve Bank of
India (Non-Banking Financial Companies – Undertaking of Financial Services)
Directions, 2025.
56

Chapter V – Other Prudential Regulations
A. Accounting Standards
154. SPDs, shall refer to the instructions as prescribed in paragraphs 10 to 12 of
Reserve Bank of India (Non-Banking Financial Companies – Financial Statements:
Presentation and Disclosures) Directions, 2025, paragraph 16 of Reserve Bank of
India (Non-Banking Financial Companies – Prudential Norms on Capital Adequacy)
Directions, 2025 and paragraph 34 to 36 of Reserve Bank of India (Non-Banking
Financial Companies – Income Recognition, Asset Classification and Provisioning)
Directions, 2025.
B. Accounting Standards for securities transactions
155. All securities in trading portfolio shall be marked to market, at appropriate
intervals.
156. Costs such as brokerage fees, commission or taxes incurred at the time of
acquisition of securities, are of revenue / deferred nature. The broken period interest
received / paid also gets adjusted at the time of coupon payment. SPDs have to ensure
that the accounting method as per applicable accounting standards shall be true and
fair and shall not result in overstating the profits or assets value. It shall be followed
consistently and be generally acceptable especially to the tax authorities.
157. Broken period interest paid to seller as part of cost on acquisition of Government
and other securities shall not be capitalized but treated as an item of expenditure under
Profit and Loss Account. The SPDs may maintain separate adjustment accounts for
the broken period interest.
158. The valuation of the securities portfolio shall be independent of the dealing and
operations functions and shall be done by obtaining the prices declared by FIMMDA /
FBIL periodically.
C. Exposure Norms
159. The extant exposure norms for SPDs are as follows:
(1) The exposure shall not exceed 25 per cent of Tier 1 capital as per last audited
accounts in case of a single borrower / counterparty and 40 per cent of Tier 1
capital in case of a group borrower / counterparty except for investments in AAA
rated corporate bonds wherein exposure shall not exceed 50 per cent of Tier 1
57

capital as per last audited accounts in case of a single borrower / counterparty
and 65 per cent of Tier 1 capital in case of a group borrower / counterparty.
(2) The ceilings on single / group exposure limit shall not be applicable where
principal and interest are fully guaranteed by the Government of India.
(3) SPDs shall include credit risk exposures to all other categories of non-
Government securities including investments in mutual funds, commercial
papers, certificate of deposits, positions in OTC derivatives not settled through
Qualifying CCP (QCCP) etc. to compute extent of credit exposure to adhere to
the prescribed prudential limits.
(4) Clearing exposure to a QCCP shall be kept outside of the exposure ceiling of
25 per cent of its Tier 1 capital applicable to a single counter party.
(5) Clearing exposure to QCCP shall include trade exposure and default fund
exposure as defined in Paragraph 52 of these Directions.
(6) Other permissible exposures to QCCPs such as investments in the capital of
CCP etc. shall continue to be within the existing exposure ceiling of 25 per cent
of Tier 1 capital to a single borrower / counterparty. However, all exposures of
SPD to a non-QCCP shall be within the exposure ceiling of 25 per cent.
(7) 2[The applicable Tier 1 Capital for compliance with the norms stated in sub-
paragraphs 159(1) to 159(6) above, shall be determined based on the SPD’s
latest available financial statements (audited or subject to limited review).]
(8) 3[In this context, the term “Tier 1 Capital” shall be as defined in paragraph 9(6)
of the Master Directions.]
160. SPDs shall calculate exposure for various items as per the Directions contained
in chaper III of these Directions. Aggregate exposure to a counterparty comprising
both on and off-balance sheet exposures shall be calculated based on the method
prescribed for capital computation in these Directions; i.e., on-balance sheet
exposures shall be reckoned at the outstanding amount while the off-balance sheet
exposures shall be converted into credit risk equivalent by applying the credit
conversion factor prescribed under capital requirements.
2 Inserted with effect from March 10, 2026, vide Reserve Bank of India (Standalone Primary Dealers)
Amendment Directions, 2026 dated March 10, 2026.
3 Inserted with effect from March 10, 2026, vide Reserve Bank of India (Standalone Primary Dealers)
Amendment Directions, 2026 dated March 10, 2026.
58

Note:
(a) Aggregate exposure shall be as per the instructions issued vide paragraph 20-
21 of Reserve Bank of India (Non-Banking Financial Companies –
Concentration Risk Management) Directions, 2025.
(b) With regards to outstanding amount, netting is allowed only for assets where
provisions for depreciation or for bad and doubtful debts have been made.
D. Declaration of dividend
161. SPDs shall refer to Reserve Bank of India (Non-Banking Financial Companies -
Prudential Norms on Declaration of Dividends) Directions, 2025.
59

Chapter VI – Governance Issues – Corporate Governance
A. Change in shareholding pattern
162. SPDs shall ensure compliance to the instructions as specified in the paragraph
6(4), 11, 12, and 13 of Reserve Bank of India (Non-Banking Financial Companies –
Acquisition of Shareholding or Control) Directions, 2025.
B. Experience of the Board
163. SPD shall refer to the instructions as prescribed in paragraph 8 of Reserve Bank
of India (Non-Banking Financial Companies – Governance) Directions, 2025.
C. Constitution of Committees of the Board
164. SPD shall refer to the instructions as prescribed in paragraph 17 of Reserve Bank
of India (Non-Banking Financial Companies – Governance) Directions, 2025.
D. Nomination and Remuneration Committee
165. SPD shall refer to the instructions as prescribed in paragraph 18 of Reserve Bank
of India (Non-Banking Financial Companies – Governance) Directions, 2025.
E. Risk Management Committee
166. SPD shall refer to the instructions as prescribed in paragraph 9 of Reserve Bank
of India (Non-Banking Financial Companies – Governance) Directions, 2025.
F. Fit and Proper Criteria
167. SPD shall refer to the instructions as prescribed in paragraph 12, 13 of Reserve
Bank of India (Non-Banking Financial Companies – Governance) Directions, 2025.
G. Key Managerial Personnel
168. SPD shall refer to the instructions as prescribed in paragraph 26 of Reserve Bank
of India (Non-Banking Financial Companies – Governance) Directions, 2025.
H. Independent Director
169. SPD shall refer to the instructions as prescribed in paragraph 27 and 28 of
Reserve Bank of India (Non-Banking Financial Companies – Governance) Directions,
2025.
60

I. Guidelines on Compensation of Key Managerial Personnel (KMP) and Senior
Management in SPDs
170. SPD shall refer to the instructions as prescribed in paragraph 29 to 37 of Reserve
Bank of India (Non-Banking Financial Companies – Governance) Directions, 2025.
J. Disclosure and transparency
171. SPDs shall refer to the instructions prescribed in paragraph 15 of Reserve Bank
of India (Non-Banking Financial Companies – Governance) Directions, 2025.
172. SPDs shall refer to Disclosure requirements as prescribed in Reserve Bank of
India (Non-Banking Financial Companies – Financial Statements: Presentation and
Disclosures) Directions, 2025.
173. SPDs shall publish their audited annual results in leading financial dailies and on
their website in the format prescribed (Annex III). The following minimum information
shall be included by way of notes on accounts to the Balance Sheet:
(1) Net borrowings in call (average and peak during the period),
(2) Basis of valuation,
(3) Leverage Ratio (average and peak),
(4) CRAR (quarterly figures), and
(5) Details of the issuer composition of non-G-Sec investments.
(6) SPDs may also furnish more information by way of additional disclosures.
174. In respect of penalty levied by the Bank, a Press Release will be issued by the
Reserve Bank, giving details of the circumstances under which the penalty is imposed
on the SPD along with the communication on the imposition of penalty in public
domain.
K. Appointment of Statutory Central Auditors/Statutory Auditors
175. SPDs shall refer to paragraph 8 of Reserve Bank of India (Non-Banking Financial
Companies – Miscellaneous) Directions, 2025.
L. Framing of Internal Guidelines
176. SPDs shall refer to paragraph 42 of Reserve Bank of India (Non-Banking
Financial Companies - Governance) Directions, 2025.
61

Chapter VII – Miscellaneous Instructions
A. Business through brokers
177. Business through brokers and limits for approved brokers : SPDs may undertake
securities transactions among themselves or with clients through the members of the
BSE, NSE and OTCEI. However, if the SPDs undertake OTC interest rate derivative
transactions through brokers, they shall ensure that these brokers are accredited by
FIMMDA. SPDs shall fix aggregate contract limits for each of the approved brokers. A
limit of five per cent of total broker transactions (both purchase and sales) entered into
by SPD during a year shall be treated as the aggregate upper limit for each of the
approved brokers. However, if for any reason it becomes necessary to exceed the
aggregate limit for any broker, the specific reasons thereof shall be recorded and the
Board shall be informed of this, post facto.
178. With the approval of their top management, SPDs shall prepare a panel of
approved brokers, which shall be reviewed annually or more often if so warranted.
Clear-cut criteria shall be laid down for empanelment of brokers, including verification
of their creditworthiness, market reputation, etc. A record of broker-wise details of
deals put through and brokerage paid, shall be maintained.
179. Brokerage payable to the broker, if any (if the deal was put through with the help
of a broker), shall be clearly indicated on the notes/memorandum put up seeking
approval for putting through the transaction, and a separate account of brokerage
paid, broker-wise, shall be maintained.
180. The role of the broker shall be restricted to that of bringing the two parties to the
deal together. Settlement of deals between SPDs and counterparties shall be directly
between the counterparties and the broker will have no role in the settlement process.
181. While negotiating the deal, the broker is not obliged to disclose the identity of the
counterparty to the deal. On conclusion of the deal, he should disclose the
counterparty and his contract note should clearly indicate the name of the
counterparty.
B. Applicability of Know Your Customer (KYC) Direction, 2016
182. All SPDs having customer interface shall refer Reserve Bank of India (Non-
Banking Financial Companies – Know Your Customer) Directions, 2025.
62

C. Managing Risks and Code of Conduct in Outsourcing of Financial Services
by SPDs
183. SPDs shall conduct a self-assessment of their existing outsourcing arrangements
and bring these in line with the directions as provided at Reserve Bank of India (Non-
Banking Financial Companies – Managing Risks in Outsourcing) Directions, 2025.
D. Technical Specifications for all participants of the Account Aggregator
ecosystem
184. SPDs shall refer to paragraphs 14 and 15 of Reserve Bank of India (Non-Banking
Financial Companies – Miscellaneous) Directions, 2025.
63

Chapter VIII – Reporting Requirements
185. The reporting requirements as prescribed by Internal Debt Management
Department and Department on Supervision shall be adhered to by the SPDs.
186. All operational guidelines issued by Internal Debt Management Department shall
also be adhered to by the SPDs.
64

Chapter IX – Repeal and Other Provisions
A. Repeal and saving
187. With the issue of these Directions, the existing Directions, instructions, and
guidelines as applicable to Standalone Primary Dealers stand repealed, as
communicated vide circular DOR.RRC.REC.302/33-01-010/2025-26 dated November
28, 2025. The Directions, instructions and guidelines already repealed shall continue
to remain repealed.
188. Notwithstanding such repeal, any action taken or purported to have been taken,
or initiated under the repealed Directions, instructions, or guidelines shall continue to
be governed by the provisions thereof. All approvals or acknowledgments granted
under these repealed lists shall be deemed as governed by these Directions. Further,
the repeal of these directions, instructions, or guidelines shall not in any way
prejudicially affect:
(a) any right, obligation or liability acquired, accrued, or incurred thereunder;
(b) any, penalty, forfeiture, or punishment incurred in respect of any contravention
committed thereunder;
(c) any investigation, legal proceeding, or remedy in respect of any such right,
privilege, obligation, liability, penalty, forfeiture, punishment as aforesaid; and
any such investigation, legal proceedings or remedy may be instituted,
continued, or enforced and any such penalty, forfeiture or punishment may be
imposed as if those directions, instructions, or guidelines had not been
repealed.
B. Application of other laws not barred
189. The provisions of these Directions shall be in addition to, and not in derogation
of the provisions of any other laws, rules, regulations, or directions, for the time being
in force.
C. Interpretations
190. For the purpose of giving effect to the provisions of these Directions or in order
to remove any difficulties in the application or interpretation of the provisions of these
Directions, the RBI may, if it considers necessary, issue necessary clarifications in
65

respect of any matter covered herein and the interpretation of any provision of these
Directions given by the RBI shall be final and binding.
(J P Sharma)
Chief General Manager
66

Annex I
Guidelines on Subordinated Debt (SD) Bonds (Tier 2 capital)
(1) The amount to be raised may be decided by the Board of Directors of the
SPD.
(2) The SPDs may fix coupon rates as decided by their Board.
(3) The instruments should be 'plain vanilla' with no special features like options,
etc.
(4) The debt securities should carry a credit rating from a Credit Rating Agency
registered with the Securities and Exchange Board of India (SEBI).
(5) The issue of SD instruments should comply with the relevant guidelines
issued by SEBI.
(6) In case of unlisted issues of SD, the disclosure requirements as prescribed
by the SEBI for listed companies in terms of the above guidelines should be
complied with.
(7) Necessary permission from the Foreign Exchange Department of the Bank
should be obtained for issuing the instruments to Non-Resident
Indians/Foreign Institutional Investors (FIIs). SPDs should comply with the
terms and conditions, if any, prescribed by SEBI / other regulatory authorities
with regard to issue of the instruments.
(8) Investments by SPDs in SD of other PDs/banks will be assigned 100% risk
weight for capital adequacy purpose. Further, the SPD’s aggregate
investments in Tier 2 bonds issued by other PDs, banks and financial
institutions should be restricted to 10 percent of the investing SPD's total
capital funds. The capital funds for this purpose will be the same as those
reckoned for the purpose of capital adequacy.
(9) The SPDs should submit a report to the Chief General Manager, Department
of Supervision (DOS), RBI, giving details of the capital raised, such as,
amount raised, maturity of the instrument, rate of interest together with a copy
of the offer document, soon after the issue is completed.
67

Annex II
Illustration Statement of Capital Adequacy - Quarter ended - Name of the
Primary Dealer:
Statement - 1 (Summary) (Amount in ₹)
(i) Total of Risk Weighted Assets(RWA) for Credit Risk
(Section D.1 of chapter III)
(ii) (a) Tier 1 capital funds (after deductions)
(b) Tier 2 capital funds eligible
(c) Total of available Tier 1 & 2 capital funds
(iii) Minimum credit risk capital required i.e. (i) x 15 per cent
(iv) Excess of Tier 1 & 2 capital funds available for market risk
capital charge i.e. (ii) (c) – (iii)
(v) The Market Risk capital charge worked out as the higher of
the amounts under the Standardised method and the one
as per internal risk management framework based VaR
model
(Section E of chapter III)
(vi) Capital funds available to meet (v) i.e: excess of Tier 1 and
Tier 2 as at (iv) above,
(vii) Over all Capital Adequacy
(a) Total RWA for credit risk i.e. (i)
(b) Capital charge for market risk i.e. (v)
(c) Numerical Link for (b) = 6.67
i.e.(reciprocal of credit risk capital ratio of 15%)
(d) Risk Weighted Assets relating to Market Risk
i.e. (b) x (c)
(e) Total Risk Weighted Assets i.e. (a) + (d)
68

(f) Minimum capital required i.e. (e) x 15%
(g) Total Capital funds available i.e. (ii) + (vi)
(h) less : Capital funds prescribed by other regulators/
licensors e.g. SEBI/ NSE/ BSE/OTCEI
(i) Net capital funds available (g – h) for PD business
(viii) C apital to Risk-Weighted Assets Ratio (CRAR) % (i / e) *
100
69

Annex III
Publication of Financial Results
Name of Primary Dealer
Audited Financial Results for the year ended March 31, ………
Sources of Funds
Capital
Reserves and Surplus
Loans
Secured
Unsecured
(of which call money borrowings)
Application of Funds
Fixed Assets
Investments
Government Securities (inclusive of T-Bills & CMBs)
Commercial Papers
Corporate Bonds
Loans and Advances
(of which call money lendings)
Non Current Assets
Others
Profits and Loss account
Income (business segment wise)
Interest
Discount
Trading Profit
Expenses
Interest
Administrative Costs
Profit before tax
Net Profit
Regulatory Capital required (as per Capital Adequacy Guidelines)
Actual Capital
Return on Net Worth
Notes on Accounts:
70

Annex IV
Guidelines on capital adequacy and exposure norms for Credit Default Swaps
(CDS)
A. Introduction
1. Standalone Primary Dealers (SPDs) can undertake transactions in CDS, both as
market-makers as well as users. As a user, a SPD can use CDS to hedge credit risk
in corporate bonds held in its trading book. The guidelines on capital adequacy and
exposure norms for CDS are dealt with in following paragraphs.
B. Definitions
2. The following definitions are used in these guidelines:
(i) Credit event payment – the amount which is payable by the credit protection seller
to the credit protection buyer under the terms of the credit derivative contract
following the occurrence of a credit event. The payment can be in form of physical
settlement (payment of par in exchange for physical delivery of a deliverable
obligation of the reference entity) or cash settlement (either a payment determined
on a par-less-recovery basis, i.e. determined using the par value of the reference
obligation less that obligation’s recovery value, or a fixed amount, or a fixed per cent
of the par amount).
(ii) Underlying asset / obligation – The asset which a protection buyer is seeking to
hedge.
C. Classification of CDS and Operational requirements for CDS
3. A SPD should allocate CDS transactions, which are held either with the trading
intent or to hedge a credit risk of the underlying corporate bond, in its Trading Book.
4. Operational requirements for CDS are as follows:
i. A CDS contract should represent a direct claim on the protection seller and should
be explicitly referenced to specific exposure, so that the extent of the cover is clearly
defined and incontrovertible.
ii. Other than non-payment by a protection buyer of premium in respect of the credit
protection contract, it should be irrevocable.
iii. There should be no clause in the contract that would allow the protection seller
unilaterally to cancel the credit cover or that would increase the effective cost of
71

cover as a result of deteriorating credit quality in the hedged exposure.
iv. The CDS contract should be unconditional; there should be no clause in the
protection contract outside the direct control of the PD that could prevent the
protection seller from being obliged to pay out in a timely manner in the event that
the original counterparty fails to make the payment(s) due.
v. The credit events specified by the contracting parties should at a minimum cover:
a) failure to pay the amounts due under terms of the underlying obligation that
are in effect at the time of such failure (with a grace period that is closely in
line with the grace period in the underlying obligation);
b) bankruptcy, insolvency or inability of the obligor to pay its debts, or its failure
or admission in writing of its inability generally to pay its debts as they become
due, and analogous events; and
c) restructuring of the underlying obligation (Restructuring approved under
Board for Industrial and Financial Reconstruction (BIFR) and Corporate Debt
Restructuring (CDR) mechanism and corporate bond restructuring) involving
forgiveness or postponement of principal, interest or fees that results in a
credit loss event;
d) when the restructuring of the underlying obligation is not covered by the CDS,
but the other requirements in paragraph 4 are met, partial recognition of the
CDS will be allowed. If the amount of the CDS is less than or equal to the
amount of the underlying obligation, 60 per cent of the amount of the hedge
can be recognised as covered. If the amount of the CDS is larger than that of
the underlying obligation, then the amount of eligible hedge is capped at 60
per cent of the amount of the underlying obligation.
vi. If the CDS specifies deliverable obligations that are different from the underlying
obligation, the resultant asset mismatch will be governed under sub-paragraph xi
below.
vii. The CDS shall not terminate prior to expiration of any grace period required for a
default on the underlying obligation to occur as a result of a failure to pay.
Note: Definition of maturity – the maturity of the underlying exposure and the
maturity of the hedge should both be defined conservatively. The effective maturity
of the underlying should be gauged as the longest possible remaining time before
72

the counterparty is scheduled to fulfill its obligation, taking into account any
applicable grace period.
viii. The CDS allowing for cash settlement are recognised for capital purposes insofar
as a robust valuation process is in place in order to estimate loss reliably. There
should be a clearly specified period for obtaining post-credit event valuations of the
underlying obligation. If the reference obligation specified in the CDS for purposes
of cash settlement is different than the underlying obligation, sub-paragraph (xi)
below governs whether the asset mismatch is permissible.
ix. If the protection buyer’s right / ability to transfer the underlying obligation to the
protection seller is required for settlement, the terms of the underlying obligation
should provide that any required consent to such transfer may not be unreasonably
withheld.
x. The identity of the parties responsible for determining whether a credit event has
occurred should be clearly defined. This determination should not be the sole
responsibility of the protection seller. The protection buyer should have the right /
ability to inform the protection seller of the occurrence of a credit event.
xi. A mismatch between the underlying obligation and the reference obligation under
the CDS (i.e. the obligation used for purposes of determining cash settlement value
or the deliverable obligation) is permissible if (1) the reference obligation ranks pari
passu with or is junior to the underlying obligation, and (2) the underlying obligation
and reference obligation share the same obligor (i.e. the same legal entity) and
legally enforceable cross- default or cross-acceleration clauses are in place.
xii. A mismatch between the underlying obligation and the obligation used for purposes
of determining whether a credit event has occurred is permissible if (1) the latter
obligation ranks pari passu with or is junior to the underlying obligation, and (2) the
underlying obligation and reference obligation share the same obligor (i.e. the same
legal entity) and legally enforceable cross- default or cross acceleration clauses are
in place.
D. Capital charge applicable on CDS positions
5. SPDs as protection buyers and protection sellers will be required to maintain capital
charge in respect of their exposures in the Trading Book as indicated in Table 1.
73

Table 1: Capital Charge for CDS positions
Particulars Trading Book
Hedged position Unhedged position
a) General Not permitted
Market Risk
b) Specific Risk
User
c) Counterparty
credit risk
Protection a) General a) General Market
Buyer Market Risk Risk
Market b) Specific Risk b) Specific Risk
maker c) Counterparty c) Counterparty
credit risk credit risk
User Not Permitted Not Permitted
a) General a) General Market
Market Risk Risk
Protection
b) Specific Risk b) Specific Risk
Market
Seller
c) Counterparty c) Counterparty
maker
credit risk credit risk
E. Capital adequacy for CDS in the Trading Book
E.1 Recognition of positions:
6. The general norms for recognising positions by the SPDs dealing in CDS are as
under:
a) A CDS does not normally create a position for general market risk.
b) The premium payable / receivable create notional positions in government
securities of relevant maturity with the appropriate fixed or floating rate. These
positions will attract appropriate capital charge for general market risk.
c) A CDS creates a notional long or short position for specific risk in the reference
asset / obligation (to the reference entity). The notional amount and the
maturity of the CDS contract will be used instead of the maturity of the
reference asset / obligation. The capital charge for specific risk is designed to
protect against an adverse movement in the price of an individual security
74

owing to factors related to the individual issuer. The specific risk charges for
various kinds of exposures would be applied as detailed below:
Table 2: Specific risk capital charge for bought
and sold CDS positions
Rating* Residual maturity
Specific Risk Capital
Charge (in %)
AAA to BBB 6 months or less 0.47
1.90
Greater than 6 months and
up to and including 24
months
Exceeding 24 months 3.00
BB and below All maturities 22.5
Unrated All maturities 15
(if permitted)
* These ratings indicate the ratings assigned by Indian rating agencies /
ECAIs or foreign rating agencies. In the case of foreign ECAIs, the rating
symbols used here correspond to Standard and Poor. The modifiers “+” or
“-“ have been subsumed with the main category.
d) A CDS contract creates a counterparty exposure on the protection seller on
account of the credit event payment and on the protection buyer on account of
the amount of premium payable under the contract. The credit exposure for
the purpose of counterparty credit risk on account of CDS transactions will be
calculated according to the Current Exposure Method [Sum of the current
marked-to-market value, if positive (zero, if MTM is negative) and the potential
future exposure add-on factors]. No netting of positive and negative marked-
to-market values of the contracts with the same counterparty, including that in
the case of hedged positions, will be allowed for the purpose of computing
capital charge for counterparty credit risk.
E.2 Specific Risk capital charges for positions hedged by CDS
7. This paragraph will be applicable only in those cases where a CDS position is
explicitly meant for hedging a Trading Book exposure. In other words, a SPD cannot
treat a CDS position as a hedge against any other Trading Book exposure if it was
not intended to be as such ab initio.
75

(i) SPDs may fully offset the specific risk capital charges when the values of two
legs (i.e., long and short) always move in the opposite direction and broadly to
the same extent. This would be the case when the two legs consist of
completely identical CDS. In these cases, no specific risk capital requirement
applies to both sides of the CDS position.
(ii) SPDs may offset 80 per cent of the specific risk capital charges when the value
of two legs (i.e. long and short) always moves in the opposite direction but not
broadly to the same extent.
Explanation: A cash position in corporate bond in Trading Book hedged by
a CDS position, even where the reference obligation and the underlying
bonds are the same, will not qualify for 100 per cent offset because a CDS
cannot guarantee a 100 per cent match between the market value of CDS
and the appreciation / depreciation in the underlying bond at all times.
This would be the case when a long cash position is hedged by a CDS and
there is an exact match in terms of the reference / deliverable obligation, and
the maturity of both the reference / deliverable obligation and the CDS. In
addition, key features of the CDS (e.g. credit event definitions, settlement
mechanisms) should not cause the price movement of the credit derivative to
materially deviate from the price movements of the cash position. To the extent
that the transaction transfers risk, an 80 per cent specific risk offset will be
applied to the side of the transaction with the higher capital charge, while the
specific risk requirement on the other side will be zero.
For example, if specific risk charge on long position (corporate bond) comes
to Rs.1000 and that on the short position (credit protection bought through
CDS) comes to Rs.700, there will be no capital charge on the short position
while the long position will attract specific risk capital charge of Rs.200
(1000-80% of 1000). SPDs will not be allowed to offset specific risk charges
between two opposite CDS positions which are not completely identical.
(iii) SPDs may offset partially the specific risk capital charges when the value of
the two legs (i.e. long and short) usually moves in the opposite direction. This
would be the case in the following situations:
a) The position is captured in sub-paragraph (ii) but there is an asset mismatch
between the cash position and the CDS. However, the underlying asset is
included in the (reference / deliverable) obligations in the CDS
documentation and meets the requirements of paragraph 4 (xi).
76

b) The position is captured in sub-paragraph (ii) but there is a maturity
mismatch between credit protection and the underlying asset. However, the
underlying asset is included in the (reference / deliverable) obligations in
the CDS documentation.
c) In each of the cases in paragraph (a) and (b) above, rather than adding the
specific risk capital requirements on each side of the transaction (i.e. the
credit protection and the underlying asset) only the higher of the two capital
requirements will apply.
E.3 Specific risk charge in CDS positions which are not meant for hedging
8. In cases not captured in paragraph 7, a specific risk capital charge will be assessed
against both sides of the positions as detailed in paragraph 6 (c).
E.4 Protection Seller
E.4.1 Capital Charge for Market Risk
9. The capital charge for market risk for protection seller shall be as under:
a) General Market Risk: The present value of premium receivable is sensitive to
changes in the interest rates. In order to measure the interest rate risk in
premium receivables, the present value of the premium receivable can be
treated as a long notional position in government securities of relevant maturity
with the appropriate fixed or floating rate. These positions will attract
appropriate capital charge for general market risk.
b) Specific Risk: Where a Protection Seller has sold credit protection through a
CDS it acquires exposure to the credit risk of the reference asset to the extent
of the amount of protection sold. Thus, a CDS creates a notional long position
for specific risk in the reference asset / obligation to the extent of the notional
amount of the CDS, which must be used. The maturity of the CDS contract will
be used instead of the maturity of the reference asset / obligation. Accordingly,
a specific risk capital charge must be calculated on the notional long position
in the reference entity (reference asset / obligation) as detailed in paragraph
6 (c).
E.4.2 Capital Charge for credit risk
10. The capital charge for credit risk for protection seller shall be as under:
Counterparty credit risk capital charge for exposure to the protection buyer: The
77

protection seller should compute the counterparty capital charge using the current
exposure method if fee / premia payments are outstanding. In such cases, the
counterparty credit risk charge for single name CDS transactions in the Trading
Book will be calculated as the sum of the current marked-to-market value, if positive
(zero, if MTM is negative) and the potential future exposure add-on factors based
on Table 3 given below:
Explanation: A CDS contract, which is required to be marked-to-market, creates
bilateral exposure for the parties to the contract. The mark-to-market value of a
CDS contract is the difference between the default-adjusted present value of
protection payment (called “protection leg” / “credit leg” ) and the present value
of premium payable called “premium leg”. If the value of credit leg is less than
the value of the premium leg, then the mark-to-market value for the protection
seller is positive. Therefore, the protection seller will have exposure to the
counterparty (protection buyer) if the value of premium leg is more than the
value of credit leg. In case, no premium is outstanding, the value of premium leg
will be zero and the mark-to-market value of the CDS contract will always be
negative for the protection seller and therefore, protection seller will not have
any exposure to the protection buyer.
The potential future exposure (i.e., add-on) for protection seller, where the CDS
positions are outside netting and margin agreements, will be capped to the amount
of unpaid premia. SPDs have the option to remove such CDS positions from their
legal netting sets and treat them as individual unmargined transactions in order to
apply the cap.
Table 3: Add-on factors for Protection sellers (As % of Notional Principal of CDS)
Type of Reference Obligation Add-on factor
10%
Obligations rated BBB- and above
20%
Below BBB- and unrated
Note: The add-on factors will be the same regardless of maturity of the reference
obligations or CDS contract.
E.5 Protection buyer
E.5.1 Capital charge for market risk
11. The capital charge for market risk for protection buyer shall be as under:
78

a) Capital Charge for General Market Risk: The present value of premium
payable by the protection buyer is sensitive to changes in the interest rates. In
order to measure the interest rate risk in premium payables, the present value
of the premium payable can be treated as a short notional position in
government securities of relevant maturity with the appropriate fixed or floating
rate. These positions will attract appropriate capital charge for general market
risk.
b) Capital Charge for Specific Risk: A bought position in CDS creates a notional
short position for specific risk in the reference asset / obligation. The notional
amount of the CDS and the maturity of the CDS contract will be used instead
of the maturity of the reference asset/ obligation. Accordingly, a specific risk
capital charge should be calculated on a short position in the reference entity
(reference asset / obligation) as detailed in para 6 (c).
E.5.2 Capital charge for credit risk
12. The capital charge for credit risk for protection buyer shall be as under:
Capital Charge for counterparty credit risk: A CDS contract creates a
counterparty exposure on the protection seller on account of the credit event
payment. The counterparty credit risk charge for all short CDS positions in the
Trading Book will be calculated as the sum of the current marked-to-market value,
if positive (zero, if MTM is negative) and the potential future exposure add-on factors
based on Table 4 given below:
Table 4: Add-on factors for Protection Buyers (As % of Notional Principal of CDS)
Type of Reference Obligation Add-on factor
10%
Obligations rated BBB- and above
20%
Below BBB- and unrated
Note: The add-on factors will be the same regardless of maturity of the reference
obligations or CDS contract.
F. Capital Charge for Counterparty risk for Collateralised Transactions in CDS
13. The counterparty exposure for CDS traded in the OTC market will be calculated as
per the Current Exposure Method. Under this method, the calculation of the
counterparty credit risk charge for an individual contract, taking into account the
79

collateral, will be as follows:
Counterparty risk capital charge = [(RC + add-on) – CA] x r x 15% where:
RC = the replacement cost,
add-on = the amount for potential future exposure calculated according to paragraphs
10 and 12 above.
CA = the volatility adjusted amount of eligible collateral under the comprehensive
approach prescribed in paragraphs 32 to 51 of these Directions, or zero if no eligible
collateral is applied to the transaction, and
r = the risk weight of the counterparty.
G. Treatment of exposures below materiality thresholds
14. Materiality thresholds on payments below which no payment is made in the event of
loss are equivalent to retained first loss positions and should be assigned risk
weight of 667% (1/0.15*100 as minimum CRAR requirement for SPDs is 15%) for
capital adequacy purpose by the protection buyer.
H. Prudential treatment post-credit event
H.1 Protection buyer
15. In case the credit event payment is not received within the period as stipulated in
the CDS contract, the protection buyer shall ignore the credit protection of the CDS
and reckon the credit exposure on the underlying asset and maintain appropriate
level of capital and provisions as warranted for the exposure. On receipt of the credit
event payment, (a) the underlying asset shall be removed from the books if it has
been delivered to the protection seller; or (b) the book value of the underlying asset
shall be reduced to the extent of credit event payment received if the credit event
payment does not fully cover the book value of the underlying asset and appropriate
provisions shall be maintained for the reduced value.
H.2 Protection seller
16. From the date of credit event and until the credit event payment is made in
accordance with the CDS contract, the protection seller shall debit the Profit and
Loss account and recognise a liability to pay to the protection buyer, for an amount
equal to fair value of the contract (notional of credit protection less expected
recovery value). In case, the fair value of the deliverable obligation (in case of
80

physical settlement) / reference obligation (in case of cash settlement) is not
available after the date of the credit event, then until the time that value is available,
the protection seller should debit the Profit and Loss account for the full amount of
the protection sold and recognise a liability to pay to the protection buyer equal to
that amount.
17. In case of physical settlement, after the credit event payment, the protection seller
shall recognise the assets received, if any, from the protection buyer at the fair value.
Thereafter, the protection seller shall subject these assets to the appropriate
prudential treatment as applicable to corporate bonds.
I. Exposure Norms
18. A SPD should not sell credit protection by writing a CDS on a corporate bond on the
date of its issuance in the primary market or undertake, before or at the time of
issuance of the bonds, to write such protection in future. Exposure on account of all
CDS contracts will be aggregated and combined with other on-balance sheet and
off-balance sheet exposures against the reference entity for the purpose of
complying with the exposure norms.
I.1 Protection buyer
19. The exposure norms for protection buyer shall be as under:
(i) In respect of obligations hedged in the Trading Book as indicated in paragraph
7 (ii), the protection buyer will not reckon any exposure on the reference entity. The
exposure will be deemed to have been transferred on the protection seller to the
extent of protection available.
(ii) In all other cases where the obligations in Trading Book are hedged by CDS
positions, the protection buyer will continue to reckon the exposure on the reference
entity equal to the outstanding position of the underlying asset.
(iii) For all bought CDS positions (hedged and un-hedged) held in Trading Book,
the protection buyer will also reckon exposure on the counterparties to the CDS
contracts as measured by the Current Exposure Method using potential future
exposure add-on factors based on Table 4 given in paragraph 12.
(iv) The protection buyer needs to adhere to all the criteria required for transferring
the exposures fully to the protection seller in terms of paragraph (i) above on an on-
81

going basis so as to qualify for exposure relief on the underlying asset. In case any
of these criteria are not met subsequently, the PD will have to reckon the exposure
on the underlying asset. Therefore, PDs should restrict the total exposure to an
obligor including that covered by way of CDS within an internal exposure ceiling
considered appropriate by the Board of the PD in such a way that it does not breach
the single / group borrower exposure limit prescribed by RBI. In case of the event of
any breach in the single / group borrower exposure limit, the entire exposure in
excess of the limit will be risk weighted at 667%. In order to ensure that consequent
upon such a treatment, the PD does not breach the minimum capital requirement
prescribed by RBI, it should keep sufficient cushion in capital in case it assumes
exposures in excess of normal exposure limit.
(v) In respect of bought CDS positions held in Trading book which are not meant for
hedging, the protection buyer will not reckon any exposure against the reference
entity.
(vi) No netting of positive and negative marked-to-market values of the contracts
with the same counterparty, including that in case of hedged positions will be allowed
for the purpose of complying with the exposure norms.
I.2 Protection Seller
20. The exposure norms for protection seller be as under:
(i) Protection seller will recognise an exposure to the reference entity of the CDS
contract equal to the amount of credit protection sold.
(ii) If a market maker has two completely identical opposite positions in CDS held
in the trading book forming a hedged position which qualifies for capital
adequacy treatment in terms of paragraph 7 (i), no exposure would be
reckoned against the reference entity.
(iii) PD as a protection seller will also recognise an exposure to the counterparty
equal to the total credit exposure calculated under Current Exposure Method
using potential future exposure add-on factors based on Table 3 given in
paragraph 10. No netting of positive and negative marked-to-market values of
the contracts with the same counterparty will be allowed for the purpose of
complying with the exposure norms.
J. Reporting Requirements
21. SPDs should report “total exposure” in all cases where they have assumed
82

exposures against borrowers in excess of the normal single / group exposure limits
due to the credit protections obtained by them through CDS or any other permitted
instruments of credit risk transfer, to the Department of Supervision (DoS) on a
quarterly basis.
K. Disclosures
22. SPDs shall disclose in the ‘Notes on Accounts’ to their Balance sheets the details
as per Appendix 1, in respect of the CDS transactions undertaken by them.
83

Appendix 1
(ref. Para 22)
Format of disclosure to be made in the Annual Financial Statements
(₹ crore)
Sl. Particulars As As
No. Protection Protection
Buyer Seller
1. No. of transactions during the year
a) of which transactions that are/ may be
physically settled
b) cash settled
2. Amount of protection bought / sold during the
year
a) of which transactions which are/ may be
physically settled
b) cash settled
3. No. of transactions where credit event payment
was received / made during the year
a) pertaining to current year’s transactions
b) pertaining to previous year(s)’ transactions
4. Net income/ profit (expenditure/ loss) in respect
of CDS transactions during year-to-date:
a) premium paid / received
b) Credit event payments:
• made (net of the value of assets
realised)
• received (net of value of deliverable
obligation)
84

5 Outstanding transactions as on March 31:
a) No. of Transactions
b) Amount of protection
6. Highest level of outstanding transactions during
the year:
a) No. of Transactions (as on ........... )
b) Amount of protection (as on… ..... )
85