भारतीय �रज़वर् बैंक
RESERVE BANK OF INDIA
RBI/DOR/2025-26/328
DOR.STR.REC.247/21.04.177/2025-26 November 28, 2025
Reserve Bank of India (All India Financial Institutions – Securitisation
Transactions) Directions, 2025
Table of Contents
Chapter I - Preliminary ...........................................................................................................3
A. Short title and commencement ..............................................................................3
B. Applicability .............................................................................................................3
C. Definitions ................................................................................................................3
Chapter II - General requirements for securitisation .......................................................... 9
A. Assets eligible for securitisation ...........................................................................9
B. Minimum Retention Requirement (MRR) ............................................................. 10
C. Origination Standards ...........................................................................................1 2
D. Payment priorities and observability ................................................................... 12
E. Limit on Total Retained Exposures by Originators................................................ 13
F. Issuance and Listing ................................................................................................. 14
G. Conditions to be satisfied by the special purpose entity .................................. 14
H. Representations and Warranties ......................................................................... 15
I. Accounting Provisions .............................................................................................1 6
Chapter III - Simple, transparent and comparable (STC) securitisations ....................... 18
A. STC Securitisations- Criteria for regulatory capital purposes .......................... 18
B. Disclosure and Prudential Oversight for STC Securitisations .......................... 28
Chapter IV - Provision of facilities supporting securitisation structures ....................... 29
A. General Conditions ...............................................................................................2 9
B. Credit Enhancement Facilities .............................................................................3 0
C. Reset of credit enhancements .............................................................................3 1
D. Liquidity Facilities ................................................................................................. 34
E. Underwriting Facilities ..............................................................................................3 5
F. Servicing Facilities ....................................................................................................3 6
Chapter V- Requirements to be met by an AIFI who is an investor in securitisation
exposures .............................................................................................................................3 7
A. Due Diligence Requirements ................................................................................3 7

B. Stress Testing ........................................................................................................3 8
C. Credit monitoring and valuation .......................................................................... 39
Chapter VI - Capital requirements for securitisation exposures and Disclosures Norms
...............................................................................................................................................4 0
A. Capital requirements for securitisation exposures ............................................ 40
B. Disclosures ............................................................................................................4 0
Chapter VII - Repeal and Other Provisions ........................................................................ 42
A. Repeal and saving ................................................................................................. 42
B. Application of other laws not barred ................................................................... 42
C. Interpretations .......................................................................................................4 2
Annex I ..................................................................................................................................4 4

Introduction
Securitisation involves transactions where credit risk in assets are redistributed by
repackaging them into tradeable securities with different risk profiles which may give
investors of various classes access to exposures which they otherwise might be
unable to access directly. While complicated and opaque securitisation structures
could be undesirable from the point of view of financial stability, prudentially
structured securitisation transactions can be an important facilitator in a well-
functioning financial market in that it improves risk distribution and liquidity of lenders
in originating fresh loan exposures.
Accordingly, in exercise of the powers conferred under Section 45L of the Reserve
Bank of India Act, 1934, the Reserve Bank of India being satisfied that it is necessary
and expedient in the public interest and in the interest of banking policy so to do,
hereby, issues the Directions hereinafter specified.
Chapter I - Preliminary
A. Short title and commencement
1. These Directions shall be called the Reserve Bank of India (All India Financial
Institutions – Securitisation Transactions) Directions, 2025.
2. These Directions shall come into effect on the day these are placed on the
official website of the Reserve Bank of India.
B. Applicability
3. These Directions shall be applicable to All India Financial Institutions
(hereinafter collectively referred to as ‘AIFIs’ and individually as an ‘AIFI’) viz.
Export-Import Bank of India (EXIM Bank), National Bank for Agriculture and
Rural Development (NABARD), Small Industries Development Bank of India
(SIDBI), National Housing Bank (NHB), and National Bank for Financing
Infrastructure and Development (NaBFID).
C. Definitions
4. For the purpose of these directions, the following definitions apply:
3

(1) “bankruptcy remote" means the unlikelihood of an entity being subjected to
voluntary or involuntary bankruptcy proceedings, including by the originator or
the creditors to the originator;
(2) “clean-up call” means an option that permits the originator to call the
underlying exposures or the securitisation exposures when the outstanding
value of the underlying exposures falls below a pre-defined threshold, thereby
extinguishing the remaining securitisation exposures of all parties;
(3) “credit enhancement” means a contractual arrangement in which an entity
mitigates the credit risk associated with a securitisation exposure and, in
substance, provides some degree of added protection to other parties to the
transaction so as to mitigate the credit risk of their securitisation exposures;
(4) “early amortisation provision” means a mechanism that, once triggered,
accelerates the reduction of the investor’s interest in underlying exposures of
a securitisation structure and allows investors to be paid out prior to the
originally stated maturity of the securitisation notes issued;
(5) “excess spread (or future margin income)” means the difference between the
gross finance charge collections and other income received by the special
purpose entity (SPE), and securitisation notes interest, servicing fees, charge-
offs, and other senior SPE expenses.
(6) “exposure amount” of a securitisation exposure means the sum of the on-
balance sheet amount of the exposure, or carrying value – which takes into
account purchase discounts and writedowns/specific provisions the AIFI took
on this securitisation exposure – and the off-balance sheet exposure amount,
where applicable.
(7) "first loss facility" means the first level of financial support provided by the
originator or a third party to improve the creditworthiness of the securitisation
notes issued by the SPE such that the provider of the facility bears the part or
all of the risks associated with the assets held by the SPE;
(8) “implicit support” means the protection arising when an AIFI provides support
to a securitisation in excess of its predetermined contractual obligation;
4

(9) “interest-only strip (I/O)” means an on-balance sheet asset of the originator
that represents a valuation of cash flows related to future margin income;
Provided that if the interest-only strip is subordinated, it shall serve the
purpose of credit enhancement and shall be referred to as credit-enhancing
interest-only strip.
(10) “Lenders” shall mean the following entities unless specifically mentioned
otherwise:
(i) Scheduled Commercial Banks (excluding Regional Rural Banks);
(ii) All India Financial Institutions (NABARD, NHB, EXIM Bank, and SIDBI);
(iii) Small Finance Banks (as permitted under Reserve Bank of India (Small
Finance Banks – Securitisation Transactions) Directions, 2025); and,
(iv) All Non-Banking Financial Companies (NBFCs) including Housing
Finance Companies (HFCs).
(11) “mortgage backed securities” mean securitisation notes issued by the
special purpose entity against underlying exposures that are all secured by
commercial or residential real estate mortgages;
(12) "originator" refers to a lender that transfers from its balance sheet a single
asset or a pool of assets to an SPE as a part of a securitisation transaction
and would include other entities of the consolidated group to which the lender
belongs;
Explanation: Originator may not be the same lender which had initially
sanctioned one or more of the exposures underlying a securitisation
transaction since loans purchased from lenders can also be sold to SPEs for
the purpose of securitisation.
(13) “overcollateralisation” means any form of credit enhancement by virtue of
which underlying exposures are posted in value which is higher than the value
of the securitisation notes;
(14) “replenishment” means the process of using the cash flows from the
securitised assets to acquire more assets in the manner disclosed upfront in
the prospectus of the scheme, which will continue for a pre-announced
replenishment period, following which the securitisation structure switches to
an amortising one;
5

Provided that assets purchased during the replenishment period shall be
purchased from the same originator(s) of the assets underlying the
securitisation notes already issued under the scheme.
(15) “residential mortgage backed securities (RMBS)” mean securitisation notes
issued by the special purpose entity against underlying exposures that are all
secured by residential mortgages;
(16) “re-securitisation exposure” means a securitisation exposure where at least
one of the underlying exposures is a securitisation exposure;
(17) “standard assets” for the purpose of these directions shall mean exposures
which are not classified as non-performing asset;
(18) “second loss facility” means a second level of financial support providing a
second (or subsequent) tier of protection to the securitisation notes issued by
the special purpose entity against potential losses not covered by the first loss
facility, and is invoked only after the first loss facility has been drawn down
and repudiated or exhausted, or the first loss provider is under insolvency or
bankruptcy or liquidation;
(19) “securitisation” means a structure where a pool of assets are transferred by
an originator to a SPE and the cash flow from this pool of assets is used to
service securitisation exposures of at least two different tranches reflecting
different degrees of credit risk, where payments to the investors depend upon
the performance of the specified underlying exposures, as opposed to being
derived from an obligation of the originator;
Provided that the pool containing a single asset eligible to be securitised is
also permitted.
Provided further that a securitisation structure may have tranches with different
maturities.
(20) “securitisation exposures” include but are not restricted to exposures to
securitisation notes issued by the special purpose entity including asset-
backed securities and mortgage-backed securities, credit enhancements,
underwriting commitments, liquidity facilities, interest rate or currency swaps,
credit derivatives and tranched cover;
6

Explanation: Reserve accounts, such as cash collateral accounts, which is
earmarked to absorb credit losses arising from the securitisation and is
recorded as an asset by the originator must also be treated as securitisation
exposures.
(21) “securitisation notes” mean securities issued by the special purpose entity
as a part of securitisation;
(22) “senior tranche” means a tranche which is effectively backed or secured by
a first claim on the entire amount of the assets in the underlying securitised
pool;
Provided that where all tranches above the first-loss piece are rated, the most
highly rated position would be treated as a senior tranche.
Provided that when there are several tranches that share the same rating,
only the most senior tranche in the cash flow waterfall would be treated as
senior (unless the only difference among them is the effective maturity).
Provided that when the different ratings of several senior tranches only result
from a difference in maturity, all of these tranches should be treated as senior
tranches.
(23) “special purpose entity (SPE)” means a company, trust or other entity
organised for a specific purpose, the activities of which are limited to those
appropriate to accomplish the purpose of the SPE, and the structure of which
is intended to isolate the SPE from the credit risk of an originator;
Explanation: Any reference to SPE in these directions would also refer to the
trust settled or declared by the SPE as a part of the process of securitisation.
(24) “subordinate tranche” means any tranche that is junior to the senior
tranche(s);
(25) “synthetic securitisation” means a structure where credit risk of an
underlying pool of exposures is transferred, in whole or in part, through the
use of credit derivatives or credit guarantees that serve to hedge the credit
risk of the portfolio which remains on the balance sheet of the AIFI;
Explanation: The above definition does not include the use of instruments
permitted to AIFIs for hedging under the current regulatory instructions.
7

(26) “tranche” means a contractually established segment of the credit risk
associated with an exposure or a pool of exposures, where a position in the
segment entails a risk of credit loss greater than or less than a position of the
same amount in another segment, without taking account of credit protection
provided by third parties directly to the holders of positions in the segment or
in other segments;
Explanation: Securitisation notes issued by the SPE and credit enhancement
facilities available shall be treated as tranches.
8

Chapter II - General requirements for securitisation
A. Assets eligible for securitisation
5. An AIFI, shall not undertake the securitisation activities or assume securitisation
exposures as mentioned below:
(1) Re-securitisation exposures;
(2) Structures in which short term instruments such as commercial paper, which
are periodically rolled over, are issued against long term assets held by a SPE
(3) Synthetic securitisation; and
(4) Securitisation with the following assets as underlying:
(i) revolving credit facilities as underlying – These involve underlying
exposures where the borrower is permitted to vary the drawn amount
and repayments within an agreed limit under a line of credit (e.g. credit
card receivables and cash credit facilities);
(ii) Restructured loans and advances which are in the specified period;
(iii) Exposures to other lending institutions;
(iv) Refinance exposures of AIFIs;
(v) Loans with bullet payments of both principal and interest as underlying;
and
(vi) Loans with residual maturity of less than 365 days;
Provided that loans with tenor up to 24 months extended to individuals
for agricultural activities (as described in Reserve Bank of India (Priority
Sector Lending – Targets and Classification) Directions, 2025) where
both interest and principal are due only on maturity and trade
receivables with tenor up to 12 months discounted/purchased by AIFIs
from their borrowers shall be eligible for securitisation. However, only
those loans/receivables will be eligible for securitisation where a
borrower (in case of agricultural loans) /a drawee of the bill (in case of
trade receivables) has fully repaid the entire amount of last two
loans/receivables (one loan, in case of agricultural loans with maturity
extending beyond one year) within 90 days of the due date. In case
such assets are securitised, the investors in the securitisation notes
9

issued against them should be able to verify the compliance of the
underlying asset with the above requirement.
6. Subject to the above, all other on-balance sheet exposures of originators, which
are in the nature of loans and advances and are classified as Standard, are
eligible as underlying assets in a securitisation transaction.
7. The originators of such exposures shall have satisfied the Minimum holding
period (MHP) requirement as defined in Reserve Bank of India (All India
Financial Institutions – Transfer and Distribution of Credit Risk) Directions,
2025.
Provided that for commercial or residential real estate mortgages, MHP shall be
counted from the date of full disbursement of the loan, or registration of security
interest with Central Registry of Securitisation Asset Reconstruction and
Security Interest of India (CERSAI), whichever is later.
8. The MHP will be applicable to individual loans in the underlying pool of
securitised loans. MHP will not be applicable to loans referred to in the proviso
to Paragraph 5.
9. The transactions undertaken in terms of these directions must not contravene
the rights of underlying obligors. To ensure compliance with this stipulation,
enabling clauses must be included in the contract between originator and
servicing agent and all necessary consent from obligors (including from third
parties), where necessary as per the respective contracts, should have been
obtained.
B. Minimum Retention Requirement (MRR)
10. The MRR is primarily designed to ensure that the originators have a continuing
stake in the performance of securitised assets so as to ensure that they carry
out proper due diligence of loans to be securitised. The originators should
adhere to the MRR as detailed below while securitising loans leading to
issuance of securitisation notes, other than for residential mortgage backed
securities:
(1) For underlying loans with original maturity of 24 months or less, the MRR shall
be 5 per cent of the book value of the loans being securitised.
10

(2) For underlying loans with original maturity of more than 24 months as well as
loans with bullet repayments, as mentioned in proviso to Paragraph 5, the
MRR shall be 10 per cent of the book value of the loans being securitised.
11. In the case of residential mortgage backed securities, the MRR for the
originator shall be 5 per cent of the book value of the loans being securitised,
irrespective of the original maturity.
12. The MRR shall be retained by the originator as follows:
(1) Up to 5 per cent of the book value of loans being securitised:
(i) First loss facility, if available;
(ii) If first loss facility is not available, or where retention of the entire first loss
facility amounts to less than 5 per cent, balance through retention of
equity tranche;
(iii) Where retention of the entire first loss facility, if available, and equity
tranche amounts to less than 5 per cent, balance pari passu in remaining
tranches sold to investors.
(2) Greater than five per cent of the book value of loans being securitised:
(i) First loss facility, or equity tranche or any other tranche sold to investors, in
any combination thereof.
Explanation: It is clarified that first loss facility for this purpose shall not
include overcollateralization available, if any.
13. Investment in the Interest Only Strip representing the Excess Interest Spread/
Future Margin Income, whether or not subordinated, will not be counted
towards the MRR.
14. MRR should not be reduced either through hedging of credit risk or selling or
encumbering the retained interest.
(1) MRR has to be maintained by the originating AIFI itself and not by any of its
group entities. The form of MRR should not change during the life of
securitisation.
(2) The MRR as a percentage of unamortised principal should be maintained on
an ongoing basis except for reduction of retained exposure due to repayment
or through the absorption of losses. Specifically, in cases of securitisations
11

featuring replenishment period, MRR should be maintained not only at the
initiation of the securitisation but also at the end of the replenishment period.
15. For complying with the MRR under these guidelines, AIFI fshould ensure that
proper documentation in accordance with law is made.
C. Origination Standards
16. Underwriting standards for exposures securitised should not be less stringent
than those applied to exposures retained on the balance sheet of the originator.
Where underwriting standards change between the loan origination and till all
the claims associated with securitised note are paid-off, the originator should
disclose to the entities having securitisation exposures the timing and purpose
of such changes.
17. In cases of securitisation of exposures purchased by originator from other
lenders, the requirements applicable for underwriting standards shall apply to
the standards of due diligence process adopted by the originator which may
include verification of sufficiency and consistency of loan origination process of
the lender from whom the exposures were purchased by the originator.
D. Payment priorities and observability
18. To prevent investors being subjected to unexpected repayment profiles during
the life of a securitisation, the priorities of payments for all liabilities in all
circumstances should be clearly defined at the time of securitisation and
appropriate legal comfort regarding their enforceability should be provided.
19. To help provide investors with full transparency over any changes to the cash
flow waterfall, payment profile or priority of payments that might affect a
securitisation, all triggers affecting the cash flow waterfall, payment profile or
priority of payments of the securitisation should be clearly and fully disclosed in
offer documents and in investor reports, with information in the investor report
that clearly identifies the breach status in respect of expected cash flows to the
note holders, the ability for the breach to be reversed and the consequences of
the breach.
20. To ensure rights and interest of the securitisation note holders are protected,
definitions, policies and remedies pertaining to the contours and caveats
12

around the performance of the underlying loans must be suitably
communicated. Further, the rights and control of the securitisation note holders
must be documented to account for all circumstances, including insolvency of
all entities involved in securitisation, such as the originator SPE, etc. Full
disclosure and supporting documentation regarding legal and financial risk
factors must be made available to prospective and existing investors within a
reasonable period of time, on an ongoing or on demand basis.
21. Securitisations featuring a replenishment period should include provisions for
appropriate early amortisation events and/or triggers of termination of the
replenishment period, including, notably:
(1) deterioration in the credit quality of the underlying exposures;
(2) a failure to acquire sufficient new underlying exposures of similar credit
quality; and
(3) the occurrence of an insolvency-related event with regard to the originator(s).
22. In the event actions of associated institutional stakeholders (originator, SPE,
servicing agent, credit enhancement provider and others) that are not prohibited
in this framework, result in material alteration of the risk profile of the
securitisation notes at any point, the originator shall ensure that same is
adequately informed and disclosed to investors, credit rating agencies and
other service providers within a maximum time frame of 14 calendar days.
E. Limit on Total Retained Exposures by Originators
23. The total exposure of an originator to the securitisation exposures belonging to
a particular securitisation structure or scheme should not exceed 20 per cent of
the total securitisation exposures created by such structure or scheme.
However, the exposure of originators to credit enhancing interest only strip shall
be excluded from this limit.
24. Credit exposure on account of interest rate swaps/currency swaps entered into
with the SPE will be excluded from this limit.
25. The 20 per cent limit on total retained exposures will not be deemed to have
been breached if it is exceeded due to amortisation of securitisation notes
issued.
13

F. Issuance and Listing
26. The minimum ticket size for issuance of securitisation notes shall be ₹ 1 crore.
Explanation: Ticket size, for the purpose of these directions, refers to the size of
investment by a single investor.
27. The listing of securitisation notes, especially in respect of certain product class,
such as RMBS, and/or generally above a certain threshold is recommended,
though not mandatory. In any case, any offer of securitisation notes to fifty or
more persons in an issuance would be listed in terms of Securities and
Exchange Board of India (Issue and Listing of Securitised Debt Instruments and
Security Receipts) Regulations, 2008 as amended from time to time.
G. Conditions to be satisfied by the special purpose entity
28. The SPE should meet the following criteria to enable the originator to apply the
guidelines on capital adequacy and other aspects as prescribed in these
directions with regard to the securitisation exposures assumed by it:
(1) Any transaction between the originator and the SPE should be strictly on
arm’s length basis.
(2) The SPE and the trustee should not resemble in name or imply any
connection or relationship with the originator of the assets in its title or name.
(3) The originator should not have any ownership, proprietary or beneficial
interest in the SPE except those specifically permitted under these directions.
The originator shall not hold any share capital in the SPE.
(4) The originator should not have more than one representative, without veto
power, on the board of the SPE provided the board has at least four members
and independent directors are in majority.
(5) If the SPE is set up as a trust, then:
(i) The originator should not exercise control, directly or indirectly, over the
SPE and the trustees, and shall not settle the trust deed, if any.
(ii) The originator shall not have any ownership, proprietary or beneficial
interest in the trustees.
(iii) The SPE should be bankruptcy remote and non-discretionary.
14

(iv) The trust deed, if any, should lay down, in detail, the functions to be
performed by the trustee, their rights and obligations as well as the rights
and obligations of the investors in relation to the securitised assets. The
trust deed should not provide for any discretion to the trustee as to the
manner of disposal and management or application of the trust property.
In order to protect their interests, investors should be empowered in the
trust deed to change the trustee at any point of time.
(v) The trustee should only perform trusteeship functions in relation to the
SPE and should not undertake any other business with the SPE.
(vi) A copy of the trust deed, if any, and the accounts and statement of affairs
of the SPE should be made available by the originator and/or other
lenders, to the RBI, if required to do so.
(6) The originator shall not support the losses of the SPE except under the
facilities explicitly permitted under these directions and shall also not be liable
to meet the recurring expenses of the SPE.
(7) The SPE should make it clear to the investors in the securitization notes
issued by it that these securitisation notes are not insured and do not
represent deposit liabilities of the originator, servicer or trustees.
29. In cases where the originator has purchased loans from another lender, the
provisions of Paragraph 28 shall apply to the lender from whom the originator
has purchased the exposures, as well.
Provided that for the purpose of sub-paragraph (4) of Paragraph 28, only one of
either the originator or the lender from whom loans were purchased by the
originator, may have the representative on the board of the SPE.
H. Representations and Warranties
30. An originator that sells assets to SPE may make representations and
warranties concerning those assets. The originator will hold capital against such
representations and warranties if any of the following conditions are not
satisfied:
(1) Any representation or warranty is provided only by way of a formal written
agreement.
15

(2) The originator undertakes appropriate due diligence before providing or
accepting any representation or warranty.
(3) The representation or warranty refers to an existing state of facts that is
capable of being verified by the originator at the time the assets are sold.
(4) The representation or warranty is not open-ended and, in particular, does not
relate to the future creditworthiness of the assets, the performance of the SPE
and/or the securitisation notes the SPE issues.
(5) The exercise of a representation or warranty, requiring an originator to replace
assets (or any parts of them) sold to a SPE, must be:
(i) undertaken within 120 days of the transfer of assets to the SPE; and
(ii) conducted on the same terms and conditions as the original sale.
(6) An originator that is required to pay damages for breach of representation or
warranty can do so provided the agreement to pay damages meets the
following conditions:
(i) the onus of proof for breach of representation or warranty remains at all
times with the party so alleging;
(ii) the party alleging the breach serves a written notice of claim, specifying
the basis for the claim; and
(iii) damages are limited to losses directly incurred as a result of the
breach.
(7) An originator should notify RBI (Department of Supervision) of all instances
where it has agreed to replace assets sold to SPE or pay damages arising out
of any representation or warranty.
I. Accounting Provisions
31. Originators shall sell assets to SPE only on cash basis and the sale
consideration should be received not later than the transfer of the asset to the
SPE. Further, there should not be gap of more than 30 days between transfer
of the assets and the issuance of securitisation notes.
32. Any loss, profit or premium realised at the time of the sale should be accounted
accordingly and reflected in the Profit & Loss account for the accounting period
during which the sale is completed.
16

33. The following treatment shall be applicable in the case of unrealised gains
arising out of sale of underlying assets to the SPE such as that associated with
expected future margin income (represented by interest-only strips or
otherwise):
(1) The unrealised gains should not be recognised in Profit and Loss account;
instead the AIFI shall hold the unrealised profit under an accounting head
styled as “Unrealised Gain on Loan Transfer Transactions”.
(2) The profit may be recognised in Profit and Loss Account only when such
unrealised gains associated with expected future margin income is redeemed
in cash. However, if the unrealised gains associated with expected future
margin income is credit enhancing (for example, in the form of credit
enhancing interest-only strip), the balance in this account may be treated as a
provision against potential losses incurred.
(3) In the case of amortising credit-enhancing interest-only strip, an AIFI would
periodically receive in cash, only the amount which is left after absorbing
losses, if any, supported by the credit-enhancing interest-only strip. On
receipt, this amount may be credited to Profit and Loss account and the
amount equivalent to the amortisation due may be written-off against the
“Unrealised Gain on Loan Transfer Transactions” account bringing down the
book value of the credit-enhancing interest-only strip in the AIFI ’s books.
(4) In the case of a non-amortising credit-enhancing interest-only strip, as and
when the AIFI receives intimation of charging-off of losses by the SPE against
the credit-enhancing interest-only strip, it may write-off equivalent amount
against “Unrealised Gain on Loan Transfer Transactions” account and bring
down the book value of the credit-enhancing interest-only strip in the AIFI’s
books. The amount received in final redemption value of the credit-enhancing
interest-only strip received in cash may be taken to Profit and Loss account.
17

Chapter III - Simple, transparent and comparable (STC) securitisations
A. STC Securitisations- Criteria for regulatory capital purposes
34. Only securitisations that additionally satisfy all the criteria listed below fall within
the scope of the STC framework. The said criteria are based on the
prescriptions of the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision. Exposures to
securitisations that are STC-compliant can be subject to the alternative capital
treatment as determined by Reserve Bank of India (All India Financial
Institutions – Prudential Norms on Capital Adequacy) Directions, 2025.
A.1 Nature of Assets
35. The assets underlying the securitisation should be homogeneous credit claims
or receivables eligible under Paragraph 5 to 9. Credit claims or receivables
should have contractually identified periodic payment streams relating to
principal, interest, or principal and interest payments. Any referenced interest
payments or discount rates should be based on an external benchmark.
36. For this purpose, the “homogeneity” criterion should be assessed taking into
account the following principles:
(1) The nature of assets should be such that investors would not need to
analyse and assess materially different legal and/or credit risk factors and risk
profiles when carrying out risk analysis and due diligence checks of each
asset.
(2) Homogeneity should be assessed on the basis of common risk drivers,
including similar risk factors and risk profiles.
(3) Credit claims or receivables included in the securitisation should have
standard obligations, in terms of rights to payments and/or income from
assets and that result in a periodic and well-defined stream of payments to
investors.
(4) Repayment of noteholders should mainly rely on the principal and interest
proceeds from the securitised assets. Partial reliance on refinancing or resale
of the asset securing the exposure may occur provided that refinancing is
sufficiently distributed within the pool and the residual values on which the
18

transaction relies are sufficiently low and that the reliance on refinancing is
thus not substantial.
A.2 Asset performance history
37. In order to provide investors with sufficient information on an asset class to
conduct appropriate due diligence and access to a sufficiently rich data set to
enable a more accurate calculation of expected loss in different stress
scenarios, verifiable loss performance data, such as delinquency and default
data, should be available for credit claims and receivables with substantially
similar risk characteristics to those being securitised, for a time period long
enough to permit meaningful evaluation by investors.
38. Sources of and access to data and the basis for claiming similarity to credit
claims or receivables being securitised should be clearly disclosed to all market
participants.
39. The originator of the securitisation or the original lending AIFI of the exposures
that are securitised, as the case may be, must have sufficient experience in
originating exposures similar to those securitised. For capital purposes,
investors must determine whether the performance history of the originator for
substantially similar claims or receivables to those being securitised has been
established for an "appropriately long period of time”. This performance history
must be no shorter than a period of seven years for non-retail exposures. For
retail exposures, the minimum performance history is five years.
A.3 Payment status
40. Credit claims or receivables being transferred to the SPE may not, at the time
of inclusion in the pool, include obligations that are in default or delinquent or
obligations for which the originator, servicer and other parties with a fiduciary
responsibility to the securitisation note holders are aware of evidence indicating
a material increase in expected losses or of enforcement actions.
41. To ensure that the quality of the securitised credit claims and receivables are
not affected by changes in underwriting standards, the originator should
demonstrate to investors that any credit claims or receivables being transferred
19

to the SPE have been originated in the ordinary course of the originator’s
business to materially non-deteriorating underwriting standards.
42. The originator should verify that the underlying credit claims or receivables
meet the following conditions:
(1) the credit claims or receivables is not under the monitoring period as defined
in defined in the Reserve Bank of India (All India Financial Institutions –
Resolution of Stressed Assets) Directions, 2025;
(2) the obligor does not have a credit assessment by a credit rating agency or a
credit score indicating a significant risk of default; and
(3) the credit claim or receivable is not subject to a dispute between the obligor
and the originator.
43. The assessment of these conditions should be carried out by the originator no
earlier than 45 days prior to the date on which the securitisation comes into
effect. Additionally, at the time of this assessment, there should, to the best
knowledge of the originator, be no evidence indicating likely deterioration in the
performance status of the credit claim or receivable.
A.4 Consistency of underwriting
44. Underwriting standards should not be less stringent than those applied to credit
claims and receivables retained on the balance sheet. In all circumstances, all
credit claims or receivables must be originated in accordance with sound and
prudent underwriting criteria based on an assessment that the obligor has the
“ability and volition to make timely payments” on its obligations.
45. The originator of the securitisation is expected, where underlying credit claims
or receivables have been acquired from third parties, to review the underwriting
standards (i.e. to check their existence and assess their quality) of these third
parties and to ascertain that they have assessed the obligors’ “ability and
volition to make timely payments on obligations”.
A.5 Asset selection and transfer
46. While assets transferred to a securitisation will be subject to defined criteria as
approved by the Board of the originator, the performance of the securitisation
20

should not rely upon the ongoing selection of assets through active
management on a discretionary basis of the securitisation’s underlying portfolio.
Explanation: As long as they are not actively selected or otherwise cherry-
picked on a discretionary basis, the addition of credit claims or receivables
during the replenishment periods or their substitution or repurchasing due to the
breach of representations and warranties do not represent active portfolio
management.
47. Credit claims or receivables transferred to a securitisation should satisfy clearly
defined eligibility criteria. Credit claims or receivables transferred to a
securitisation after the date on which securitisation becomes effective may not
be actively selected, actively managed or otherwise cherrypicked on a
discretionary basis.
48. The securitisation should be such that the underlying credit claims or
receivables:
(1) are enforceable against the obligor and their enforceability is included in the
representations and warranties of the originator;
(2) are beyond the reach of the seller, its creditors or liquidators and are not
subject to material recharacterisation or clawback risks;
(3) are not effected through credit default swaps, derivatives or guarantees, but
by a transfer of the credit claims or the receivables to the securitisation;
(4) demonstrate effective recourse to the ultimate obligation for the underlying
credit claims or receivables and are not a securitisation of other
securitisations; and
(5) for regulatory capital purposes, an independent third-party legal opinion must
support the claim that the transfer of assets under the applicable laws comply
with the above sub-paragraphs.
49. The originator should provide representations and warranties that the credit
claims or receivables being transferred to the SPE are not subject to any
condition or encumbrance that can be foreseen to adversely affect
enforceability in respect of collections due.
21

50. To assist investors in conducting appropriate due diligence prior to investing in
a new offering, sufficient loan-level data in accordance with applicable laws or,
in the case of granular pools, summary stratification data on the relevant risk
characteristics of the underlying pool should be available to potential investors
before pricing of a securitisation.
A.6 Initial and ongoing data
51. To assist investors in conducting appropriate and ongoing monitoring of their
investments’ performance and so that investors that wish to purchase a
securitisation in the secondary market have sufficient information to conduct
appropriate due diligence, timely loan-level data in accordance with applicable
laws or granular pool stratification data on the risk characteristics of the
underlying pool and standardised investor reports should be readily available to
current and potential investors at least quarterly throughout the life of the
securitisation. Cut-off dates of the loan-level or granular pool stratification data
should be aligned with those used for investor reporting.
52. To provide a level of assurance that the reporting of the underlying credit claims
or receivables is accurate and that the underlying credit claims or receivables
meet the eligibility requirements, the initial portfolio should be reviewed for
conformity with the eligibility requirements by an appropriate legally
accountable and independent third party.
Explanation: The review should confirm that the credit claims or receivables
transferred to the SPE meet the portfolio eligibility requirements. The review
could, for example, be undertaken on a representative sample of the initial
portfolio, with the application of a minimum confidence level. The verification
report need not be provided but its results, including any material exceptions,
should be disclosed in the initial offering documentation.
A.7 Redemption cash flows
53. To help ensure that the underlying credit claims or receivables do not need to
be refinanced over a short period of time, there should not be a reliance on the
sale or refinancing of the underlying credit claims or receivables in order to
repay the liabilities of the SPE, unless the underlying pool of credit claims or
receivables is sufficiently granular and has sufficiently distributed repayment
22

profiles. Rights to receive income from the assets specified to support
redemption payments should be considered as eligible credit claims or
receivables in this regard.
A.8 Currency and interest rate asset and liability mismatches
54. To reduce the payment risk arising from the different interest rate and currency
profiles of assets and liabilities and to improve investors’ ability to model cash
flows, interest rate and foreign currency risks should be appropriately mitigated
at all times, and if any hedging transaction is executed the transaction should
be documented according to industry-standard master agreements. Only
derivatives used for genuine hedging of asset and liability mismatches of
interest rate and / or currency should be allowed.
(1) For capital purposes, the term “appropriately mitigated” should be understood
as not necessarily requiring a completely perfect hedge. The appropriateness
of the mitigation of interest rate and foreign currency through the life of the
transaction must be demonstrated by making available to potential investors,
in a timely and regular manner, quantitative information including the fraction
of notional amounts that are hedged, as well as sensitivity analysis that
illustrates the effectiveness of the hedge under extreme but plausible
scenarios.
(2) If hedges are not performed through derivatives, then those risk-mitigating
measures are only permitted if they are specifically created and used for the
purpose of hedging an individual and specific risk, and not multiple risks at the
same time (such as credit and interest rate risks). Non-derivative risk
mitigation measures must be fully funded and available at all times.
A.9 Payment priorities and observability
55. Investor reports should contain information that allows investors to monitor the
evolution over time of the indicators that are subject to triggers. Any triggers
breached between payment dates should be disclosed to investors on a timely
basis in accordance with the terms and conditions of all underlying transaction
documents.
23

56. Following the occurrence of a performance-related trigger, an event of default
or an acceleration event, the securitisation positions should be repaid in
accordance with a sequential amortisation priority of payments, in order of
tranche seniority, and there should not be provisions requiring immediate
liquidation of the underlying assets at market value.
57. To assist investors in their ability to appropriately model the cash flow waterfall
of the securitisation, the originator should make available to investors, both
before pricing of the securitisation and on an ongoing basis, a liability cash flow
model or information on the cash flow provisions allowing appropriate modelling
of the securitisation cash flow waterfall.
58. To ensure that debt forgiveness, loan moratoriums, payment holidays,
restructurings and other asset performance remedies can be clearly identified,
policies and procedures, definitions, remedies and actions relating to
delinquency, default or restructuring of underlying debtors should be provided in
clear and consistent terms, such that investors can clearly identify debt
forgiveness, loan moratoriums, payment holidays, restructuring and other asset
performance remedies on an ongoing basis.
A.10 Voting and enforcement rights
59. To help ensure clarity for note holders of their rights and ability to control and
enforce on the underlying credit claims or receivables, upon insolvency of the
originator, all voting and enforcement rights related to the credit claims or
receivables should be transferred to the SPE. Investors’ rights in the
securitisation should be clearly defined in all circumstances, including the rights
of senior versus junior note holders.
A.11 Documentation disclosure and legal review
60. To help investors to fully understand the terms, conditions, legal and
commercial information prior to investing in a new offering and to ensure that
this information is set out in a clear and effective manner for all programmes
and offerings, sufficient initial offering and draft underlying documentation
should be made available to investors (and readily available to potential
investors on a continuous basis) within a reasonably sufficient period of time
prior to pricing, or when legally permissible, such that the investor is provided
24

with full disclosure of the legal and commercial information and comprehensive
risk factors needed to make informed investment decisions.
Explanation: For the purpose of this paragraph, initial offering documentation
would typically mean draft offering circular, draft offering memorandum, draft
offering document or draft prospectus, such as a “red herring” whereas draft
underlying documentation would typically mean asset sale agreement,
assignment, novation or transfer agreement; servicing, backup servicing,
administration and cash management agreements; trust/management deed,
security deed, agency agreement, account bank agreement, guaranteed
investment contract, incorporated terms or master trust framework or master
definitions agreement as applicable; any relevant inter-creditor agreements,
swap or derivative documentation, subordinated loan agreements, start-up loan
agreements and liquidity facility agreements; and any other relevant underlying
documentation, including legal opinions.
61. Final offering documents should be available from the closing date and all final
underlying transaction documents shortly thereafter. These should be
composed such that readers can readily find, understand and use relevant
information.
A.12 Fiduciary and contractual responsibilities
62. To ensure that all the documentation of securitisation transactions has been
subject to appropriate review prior to publication, the terms and documentation
of the securitisation should be reviewed by an appropriately experienced third
party legal practice, such as a legal counsel already instructed by one of the
transaction parties. Investors should be notified in a timely fashion of any
changes in such documents that have an impact on the structural risks in the
securitisation.
63. To help ensure servicers have extensive workout expertise, thorough legal and
collateral knowledge and a proven track record in loss mitigation, such parties
should be able to demonstrate expertise in the servicing of the underlying credit
claims or receivables, supported by a management team with extensive
industry experience. The servicer should at all times act in accordance with
reasonable and prudent standards.
25

64. Policies, procedures and risk management controls should be well documented
and adhere to good market practices and relevant regulatory regimes. There
should be strong systems and reporting capabilities in place. In assessing
whether “strong systems and reporting capabilities are in place” for capital
purposes, well documented policies, procedures and risk management controls,
as well as strong systems and reporting capabilities, may be substantiated by a
third-party review.
65. The party or parties with fiduciary responsibility should act on a timely basis in
the best interests of the securitisation note holders, and both the initial offering
and all underlying documentation should contain provisions facilitating the
timely resolution of conflicts between different classes of note holders by the
trustees, to the extent permitted by applicable law.
66. The party or parties with fiduciary responsibility to the securitisation and to
investors should be able to demonstrate sufficient skills and resources to
comply with their duties of care in the administration of the SPE.
67. To increase the likelihood that those identified as having a fiduciary
responsibility towards investors as well as the servicer execute their duties in
full on a timely basis, remuneration should be such that these parties are
incentivised and able to meet their responsibilities in full and on a timely basis.
A.13 Transparency to investors
68. To help provide full transparency to investors, assist investors in the conduct of
their due diligence and to prevent investors being subject to unexpected
disruptions in cash flow collections and servicing, the contractual obligations,
duties and responsibilities of all key parties to the securitisation, both those with
a fiduciary responsibility and of the ancillary service providers, should be
defined clearly both in the initial offering and all underlying documentation.
Explanation: For the purpose of this paragraph, “initial offering” and “underlying
transaction documentation” shall have the same meaning as in the explanation
to the Paragraph 60 above.
69. Provisions should be documented for the replacement of servicers, bank
account providers, derivatives counterparties and liquidity providers in the event
26

of failure or non-performance or insolvency or other deterioration of
creditworthiness of any such counterparty to the securitisation.
70. To enhance transparency and visibility over all receipts, payments and ledger
entries at all times, the performance reports to investors should distinguish and
report the securitisation’s income and disbursements, such as scheduled
principal, redemption principal, scheduled interest, prepaid principal, past due
interest and fees and charges, delinquent, defaulted and restructured amounts
under debt forgiveness and payment holidays, including accurate accounting
for amounts attributable to principal and interest deficiency ledgers.
A.14 Credit risk of underlying exposures
71. At the portfolio cut-off date (Date post which no credit claim or receivable
transfer shall happen to SPE except against breach of representation and
warranties as permitted under these directions) the underlying exposures have
to meet the conditions under the Standardised Approach for credit risk, and
after taking into account any eligible credit risk mitigation, for being assigned a
risk weight equal to or smaller than:
(1) 40 per cent on a value-weighted average exposure basis for the portfolio
where the exposures are loans secured by residential mortgages or fully
guaranteed residential loans;
(2) 50 per cent on an individual exposure basis where the exposure is a loan
secured by a commercial mortgage;
(3) 75 per cent on an individual exposure basis where the exposure is a retail
exposure; or
(4) 100 per cent on an individual exposure basis for any other exposure.
A.15 Granularity of the pool
72. At the portfolio cut-off date, the aggregated value of all exposures to a single
obligor shall not exceed one per cent of the aggregated outstanding exposure
value of all exposures in the portfolio.
Provided that the applicable maximum concentration threshold could be
increased to two per cent if the originator retains subordinated tranche(s) that
form credit enhancements that are loss absorbing, and which cover at least the
27

first 10 per cent of losses. These tranche(s) retained by the originator shall not
be eligible for the STC capital treatment.
B. Disclosure and Prudential Oversight for STC Securitisations
73. The originator shall disclose to investors all necessary information at the
transaction level to allow investors to determine whether the securitisation is
STC compliant. Based on the information provided by the originator, the
investor must make its own assessment of the securitisation‘s STC compliance
status before applying the alternative capital treatment.
74. For securitisation exposures retained by the originator, where significant credit
risk transfer in terms of the requirements of the Reserve Bank of India (All India
Financial Institutions – Prudential Norms on Capital Adequacy) Directions, 2025
have been achieved by the originator, the determination of compliance with
STC requirements shall be made by the originator.
75. STC criteria need to be met at all times. Checking the compliance with some of
the criteria might only be necessary at origination (or at the time of initiating the
exposure, in case of guarantees or liquidity facilities) of an STC securitisation.
(1) Notwithstanding, investors and holders of the securitisation positions are
expected to take into account developments that may invalidate the previous
compliance assessment, for example deficiencies in the frequency and
content of the investor reports, in the alignment of interest, or changes in the
transaction documentation at variance with relevant STC criteria.
76. In cases where the criteria refer to underlying, and the pool is dynamic, the
compliance with the criteria will be subject to dynamic checks every time that
assets are added to the pool. The criteria for the addition of assets shall be
clearly described in relevant transaction documents.
77. Investors should consider whether the originator, servicer, and other parties
with a fiduciary responsibility to the securitisation note holders have an
established performance history for substantially similar credit claims or
receivables to those being securitised and for an appropriately long period of
time.
28

78. RBI would verify the preferential regulatory capital treatment assignments made
by the AIFIs, including the originator, as part of the supervisory review. If it is
discovered that a transaction does not satisfy the STC criteria for regulatory
capital purposes, RBI would take appropriate supervisory action including inter
alia additional capital under the Pillar 2 framework, and/or by denying
preferential regulatory capital treatment for that specific transaction and
potentially others as well.
Chapter IV - Provision of facilities supporting securitisation structures
A. General Conditions
79. Lenders may provide supporting facilities such as credit enhancement facilities,
liquidity facilities, underwriting facilities and servicing facilities. Apart from
lenders, since such facilities may also be provided by entities that are not
lenders, entities providing such facilities are referred to in this chapter as
“facility providers”. Such facility provider(s) must be regulated by at least one
financial sector regulator.
80. The facilities, as above, provided by facility providers should satisfy the
following conditions, in addition to the specific conditions applicable to each
facility as prescribed in the remaining paragraphs of this Chapter:
(1) Provision of the facility should be structured in a manner to keep it distinct
from other facilities and documented separately from any other facility
provided by the facility provider. The nature, purpose, extent of the facility
and all required standards of performance should be clearly specified in a
written agreement to be executed at the time of originating the transaction
and disclosed in the offer document.
(2) The facility is provided on an 'arm's length basis' on market terms and
conditions and subjected to the facility provider’s normal credit approval and
review process.
(3) Payment of any fee or other income for the facility is not subordinated or
subject to deferral or waiver.
(4) The facility is limited to a specified amount and duration.
29

(5) The duration of the facility is limited to the earlier of the dates on which:
(i) all claims connected with the securitisation notes issued by the SPE are
paid out; or
(ii) the facility provider's obligations in relation to such facility are otherwise
terminated.
(6) There should not be any recourse to the facility provider beyond the fixed
contractual obligations. In particular, the facility provider should not bear any
recurring expenses of the securitisation.
(7) The facility provider has obtained legal opinion that the terms of agreement
protect it from any liability to the investors in the securitisation or to the SPE
/ trustee, except in relation to its contractual obligations pursuant to the
agreement governing provision of the facility.
(8) The SPE and/or investors in the securitisation notes issued by the SPE
have the clear right to select an alternative party to provide the facility
subject to compliance of instructions in this direction.
B. Credit Enhancement Facilities
81. Credit enhancement is the process of enhancing credit profile of a structured
financial transaction through provision of additional security/financial support,
for covering losses on securitised assets in adverse conditions. The
enhancements can be broadly divided into two types viz. internal credit
enhancement and external credit enhancement.
Explanation (1) A credit enhancement which, for the investors, creates
exposure to entities other than the underlying borrowers is called the external
credit enhancement. For instance, cash collaterals and first/second loss
guarantees are external forms of credit enhancements.
Explanation (2) Investment in subordinated tranches, over-collateralisation,
excess spreads, credit enhancing interest-only strips are internal forms of credit
enhancements.
82. Credit enhancement facilities include all arrangements that could result in a
facility provider absorbing losses of the investors in a securitisation transaction.
Such facilities may be provided by both originators and third parties. The facility
provider providing credit enhancement facilities should ensure that the following
30

conditions are fulfilled failing which credit enhancement provider will be required
to hold capital equal to the full value of the securitised assets:
(1) All conditions specified in Paragraphs 79 and 80.
(2) Credit enhancement facility should be provided only at the initiation of the
securitisation transaction.
(3) The amount of credit enhancement extended at the initiation of the
securitisation transaction should be available to the SPE during the entire life
of the securitisation notes in respect of which such credit enhancement is
provided, subject to any resets of such credit enhancement specifically
permitted under these directions.
(4) Any utilization / draw down of the credit enhancement should be immediately
written-off by debit to the profit and loss account by facility provider.
C. Reset of credit enhancements
83. Resets can be applied to external forms of credit enhancements, which is in
first or second loss position. The original amount of external credit
enhancements provided at the time of initiation of securitisation transaction can
be reset by the credit enhancement provider subject to the conditions
enumerated below.
(1) At the time of reset, all the outstanding tranches of securitisation notes should
be re-rated (other than equity tranches). The first reset of credit enhancement
will not be permitted if the rating of any of the tranches has deteriorated vis-a-
vis the original rating of these securitisation positions. Subsequent resets
would not be permitted if the rating of any of the tranches has deteriorated vis-
à-vis the rating at the time of previous reset.
(2) If reset is permissible in terms of (1) above, the amount of credit enhancement
required for retaining the original or current outstanding rating, whichever is
higher should be determined by the concerned rating agency for the first
reset. Similarly, for subsequent resets, the amount of credit enhancement
required for retaining the higher of the rating at the time of previous reset and
current outstanding rating should be determined by the concerned rating
agency.
31

Provided that only the rating agency, subject to its continued rating
operations, which had rated the securitisation transaction initially shall re-rate
it for the purpose of reset of credit enhancement. Enabling clauses and
commercial terms must be made part of the initial contract to ensure the
implementation of this regulatory advisory failing which credit enhancement
reset cannot be executed.
(3) The reset of credit enhancement would be subject to the consent of the
investors in the securitisation notes. The consent may either be explicitly
obtained during every reset or the transactions documents may contain
general clauses providing implicit consent of the investors for rest of credit
enhancement.
(4) The reset of credit enhancement should be provided for in the contractual
terms of the transaction and the initial rating of the transaction should take into
account the likelihood of resets. Such contractual clause should include
clearly defined portfolio-level delinquency triggers, which, if met, should result
in the credit enhancement resets not available or possible.
(5) In case such a contractual clause was not available originally, reset of credit
enhancement may be carried out subject to the consent of all investors of
outstanding securitisation notes.
(6) In structures where external credit enhancements exist providing first loss
credit enhancement (FLCE) and second loss credit enhancement (SLCE), the
reset may be carried out simultaneously between FLCE and SLCE in a
proportion such that the reset maintains at least the outstanding rating [as
envisaged in sub-paragraph (2) above] of SLCE.
(7) Reset of equity tranche is not allowed as it would tantamount to a reset of an
internal credit enhancement.
84. For all securitisations other than residential mortgage backed-securitisations, at
the time of first reset, at least 50 per cent of the total principal amount assigned
at the time of initiation of the securitisation transaction must have been
amortised. The subsequent resets may be carried out after the pool principal
has amortised in steps of 10 per cent, i.e., up to at least 60 per cent, 70 per
32

cent and 80 per cent of the original level. However, a minimum gap of six
months should be maintained between successive resets.
85. For residential mortgage-backed securitisations, at the time of first reset, at
least 25 per cent of the total principal amount assigned at the time of initiation
of the securitisation transaction must have been amortised. The subsequent
resets may be carried out at every 10 per cent (of the original level) further
amortisation of the pool principal. A minimum gap of six months should be
maintained between successive resets.
86. The excess credit enhancement can be released subject to the following
conditions:
(1) The release of credit enhancement would be subject to a reserve floor as a
percentage of the initial credit enhancement provided at the time of
transaction, i.e., at any time, the level of credit enhancement available,
following any reset shall not drop below the prescribed reserve floor. Thus,
even if the required level of credit enhancement to maintain the ratings, as
assessed by the credit rating agency during a reset, is lower than the reserve
floor, the excess amount available for reset shall be computed as the
difference between the available credit enhancement and the reserve floor.
(2) The stipulation of the floor may be based on the transaction structure,
depending on asset class, the track record of the originator and other pool
specific factors such as concentration of long-term contracts in a pool, and in
no case should be less than:
(i) 30 per cent of the initial credit enhancement for securitisations other
than residential mortgage backed-securitisations; and
(ii) 20 per cent of the initial credit enhancement for residential
mortgage backed-securitisations.
(3) A maximum of 60 per cent of the credit enhancement in excess of that
required to retain the credit rating of all the tranches as referred to in sub-
paragraph (2) of Paragraph 83 assigned to them can be considered for
release, at any point of time subject to fulfilling the reserve floor indicated at
sub-paragraph (1) above.
33

(4) The reset should not lead to exposures retained by originators along with
credit enhancements offered by them falling below the level of MRR
prescribed in Paragraphs 10 to 15.
87. In order to facilitate a common understanding amongst stakeholders and to
allow the market to understand the linkage between good pool performance
and CE reset, credit rating agencies will disseminate information pertaining to
CE reset via press release and would confirm that ratings will not be adversely
affected by such reset.
D. Liquidity Facilities
88. A liquidity facility is provided to help smoothen the timing differences faced by
the SPE between the receipt of cash flows from the underlying assets and the
payments to be made to investors. A liquidity facility should meet all of the
following conditions to guard against the possibility of the facility functioning as
a form of credit enhancement and/ or credit support:
(1) All conditions specified in Paragraphs 79 and 80.
(2) The documentation for the facility must clearly define the circumstances
under which the facility may or may not be drawn on.
(3) The facility should be capable of being drawn only where there is a sufficient
level of non-defaulted assets to cover drawings, or the full amount of assets
that may turn non-performing are covered by a substantial credit
enhancement.
(4) The facility shall not be drawn for the purpose of:
(i) providing credit enhancement;
(ii) covering losses of the SPE;
(iii) serving as a permanent revolving funding, i.e., liquidity support should
be an exception rather than the norm; and
(iv) covering any losses incurred in the underlying pool of exposures prior
to a draw down.
(5) The liquidity facility should not be available for the following purposes:
(i) meeting recurring expenses of securitisation;
(ii) funding acquisition of additional assets by the SPE;
34

(iii) funding the final scheduled repayment of investors; and
(iv) funding breaches of warranties.
(6) Facility should be provided to SPE and not directly to the investors.
(7) When the liquidity facility has been drawn the facility provider shall have a
priority of claim over the future cash flows from the underlying assets, and
thus shall be senior to the senior tranche.
(8) The originator must not be liable to meet any shortfall in liquidity support
provided by any independent third party.
89. If any of the conditions are not satisfied, a liquidity facility will be regarded as
serving the economic purpose of credit enhancement. In such cases, the
liquidity facility provided by a third party shall be treated as a credit
enhancement.
90. Since the liquidity facility is meant to smoothen temporary cash flow
mismatches, the facility shall remain drawn only for short periods, preferably not
used for two consecutive repayments to investors. If the drawings under the
facility are outstanding for more than 90 days, it should be classified as NPA
and fully provided for.
E. Underwriting Facilities
91. An originator or a third-party service provider may act as an underwriter for the
issue of securitisation notes by SPE and treat the facility as an underwriting
facility for capital adequacy purposes subject to the following conditions:
(1) All conditions specified in Paragraphs 79 and 80 are satisfied.
(2) The underwriting is exercisable only when the SPE cannot issue securitisation
notes into the market at a price equal to or above the benchmark
predetermined in the underwriting agreement.
(3) The facility provider has the ability to withhold payment and to terminate the
facility, if necessary, upon the occurrence of specified events (e.g. material
adverse changes or defaults on assets above a specified level);
92. In case any of the above conditions are not satisfied, the facility will be
considered as a credit enhancement.
35

93. An originator may underwrite only investment grade senior notes issued by the
SPE. The holdings of securitisation notes devolved to the originator through
underwriting would not attract provisions of Paragraph 23 provided they are
sold to unrelated third parties within three-month period following the
acquisition. For the period between acquisition and upto three months, the
originator will maintain capital equal to as if the exposures were held on the
books of the originator.
F. Servicing Facilities
94. A servicing facility provider administers or services the securitised assets.
Hence, it should not have any obligation to support any losses incurred by the
SPE, except to the extent contractually provided in the servicing facility
agreement indemnifying the SPE from defaults, breaches, negligence or fraud
by the servicing facility provider, and should be able to demonstrate this to the
investors in the securitisation exposures. A facility provider performing the role
of a service provider for a proprietary or a third-party securitisation transaction
should ensure that the following conditions are fulfilled:
(1) All conditions specified in Paragraphs 79 and 80.
(2) The service provider should be under no obligation to remit funds to the SPE
or investors until it has received funds generated from the underlying assets
except where it is also the provider of an eligible liquidity facility.
(3) The service provider shall hold in trust, on behalf of the investors, the cash
flows arising from the underlying and should avoid co-mingling of these cash
flows with their own cash flows.
(4) The service provider should remit all the cashflows arising from the underlying
loans forming part of the securitised pools to the SPE as per the agreed
mechanism, irrespective of any retained interest in the securitisation
transaction in other capacities.
95. Where any of the above conditions are not met, the service provider may be
deemed as providing liquidity facility to the SPE or investors and treated
accordingly for capital adequacy purpose.
36

Chapter V- Requirements to be met by an AIFI who is an investor in
securitisation exposures
A. Due Diligence Requirements
96. AIFI can invest in securitised notes only if the originator has explicitly disclosed
to the purchasing AIFI that it has adhered to the MRR and MHP requirements
and will adhere to MRR on an ongoing basis, as applicable and advised in this
direction.
97. Further, only if the originator has explicitly disclosed that it has complied with
the applicable provisions of the Know Your Customer (KYC) Directions, AIFI
may invest in such securitised notes.
98. AIFI shall have a comprehensive understanding of the risk characteristics of its
individual securitisation exposures as well as the risk characteristics of the
pools underlying its securitisation exposures, at all times. AIFI also has to
demonstrate that for making such an assessment it has implemented formal
policies and procedures as appropriate.
99. AIFI should be able to access performance information on the underlying pools
on an ongoing basis. Such information may include, as appropriate, but not
limited to the following: the average credit quality through average credit scores
or similar aggregates of creditworthiness, extent of diversification of the pool of
loans, volatility of the market values of the collaterals supporting the loans,
cyclicality of the economic activities in which the underlying borrowers are
engaged, exposure type, prepayment rates, property types, occupancy, etc.
100. AIFI should have a thorough understanding of all structural features of a
securitisation transaction that would materially impact the performance of their
exposures to the transaction. Such information may include, as appropriate, but
not limited to the following: seniority of the tranche, thickness of the subordinate
tranches, its sensitivity to prepayment risk and credit enhancement resets,
structure of repayment waterfalls, waterfall related triggers, the position of the
tranche in sequential repayment of tranches, liquidity enhancements,
availability of credit enhancements in the case of liquidity facilities, deal-specific
definition of default, etc.
37

101. Apart from the above, AIFI should take note of, analyse and record the
following while taking the decision regarding a securitisation exposure:
(1) the reputation of the originators in terms of observance of credit appraisal and
credit monitoring standards, due diligence standards in case the securitised
assets had been purchased, adherence to minimum retention and minimum
holding standards in earlier securitisations, and fairness in selecting
exposures for securitisation;
(2) loss experience in earlier securitisations of the originators in the relevant
exposure classes underlying the securitisation position, incidence of any
frauds committed by the underlying borrowers, truthfulness of the
representations and warranties made by the originator;
(3) the statements and disclosures made by the originators, or their agents or
advisors, about their due diligence on the securitised exposures and, where
applicable, on the quality of the collateral supporting the securitised
exposures; and
(4) where applicable, the methodologies and concepts on which the valuation of
collateral supporting the securitised exposures is based and the policies
adopted by the originator to ensure the independence of the valuer.
B. Stress Testing
102. AIFI should regularly perform its own stress tests appropriate to its
securitisation positions. For this purpose, various factors which may be
considered include, but are not limited to, rise in default rates in the underlying
portfolios in a situation of economic downturn, rise in pre-payment rates due to
fall in rate of interest or rise in income levels of the borrowers leading to early
redemption of exposures, fall in rating of the credit enhancers resulting in fall in
market value of securitisation notes and drying of liquidity of the securitisation
notes resulting in higher prudent valuation adjustments. Based on the results of
stress tests, additional capital shall be held to support any higher risk, if
required.
38

C. Credit monitoring and valuation
103. AIFI shall have Board approved policies detailing valuation of the securitisation
notes in which they have invested. The policies should inter alia describe the
models used for valuation, the assumptions underpinning the models, the policy
regarding back-testing and stress testing the valuation model and its
parameters etc. The Board approved valuation policies and the use of such
policies in assigning valuation to the investment positions in securitisation notes
by AIFIs will be a part of supervisory review.
104. The counterparty for the investor in the securitisation notes would not be the
SPE but the underlying assets in respect of which the cash flows are expected
from the obligors. The securitisation exposures of AIFIs will be subject to the
requirements of “Look Through Approach” (LTA) under the Large Exposures
Framework, as specified in Reserve Bank of India (All India Financial
Institutions – Concentration Norms) Directions, 2025.
105. AIFI needs to monitor on an ongoing basis and in a timely manner,
performance information on the exposures underlying their securitisation
positions and take appropriate action, if any, required. Action may include
modification to exposure ceilings to certain type of asset class underlying
securitisation, modification to ceilings applicable to originators etc.
106. For this purpose, AIFI should establish formal procedures appropriate to their
banking book and trading book and commensurate with the risk profile of their
exposures in securitised positions as stipulated in Paragraphs 99 to 101. Where
relevant, this shall include the exposure type, the percentage of loans more
than 30, 60 and 90 days past due, default rates, prepayment rates, loans in
foreclosure, collateral type and occupancy and frequency distribution of credit
scores or other measures of credit worthiness across underlying exposures,
industry and geographical diversification, frequency distribution of loan to value
ratios with bandwidths that facilitate adequate sensitivity analysis. AIFI may
inter alia make use of the disclosures made by the originators in the form given
in Annex I to monitor the securitisation exposures.
39

Chapter VI - Capital requirements for securitisation exposures and Disclosures
Norms
A. Capital requirements for securitisation exposures
107. AIFI shall maintain capital against all securitisation exposure amounts,
including those arising from the provision of credit risk mitigants to a
securitisation transaction, investments in asset-backed or mortgage-backed
securities, retention of a subordinated tranche, and extension of a liquidity
facility or credit enhancement. AIFI shall be guided by Reserve Bank of India
(All India Financial Institutions – Prudential Norms on Capital Adequacy)
Directions, 2025 on Capital requirements for securitisation exposures.
B. Disclosures
108. Wherever a third-party servicing agent service have been availed, the originator
shall ensure robust and legally binding information sharing mechanisms are in
place to comply with stipulated reporting requirements with requisite frequency
and rigor. In such cases of obtaining data from third-party entities, originator
must get information duly certified by the respective third-party auditors,
preferably at a frequency of no more than a year.
B.1 Disclosures to be made in Servicer/Investor/Trustee Report
109. The originator(s) should disclose to investors the weighted average holding
period of the assets securitised and the level of their MRR in the securitisation.
110. The originator(s) should ensure that prospective investors have readily
available access to all materially relevant data on the credit quality and
performance of the individual underlying exposures, cash flows and collateral
supporting a securitisation exposure as well as such information that is
necessary to conduct comprehensive and well-informed stress tests on the
cash flows and collateral values supporting the underlying exposures.
111. The disclosure by an originator of its fulfilment of the MHP and MRR should be
made available publicly and shall be appropriately documented; for instance, a
reference to the retention commitment in the prospectus for securitisation notes
issued under that securitisation programme would be considered appropriate.
40

(1) The disclosure should be made at origination of the transaction, and should
be confirmed thereafter at a minimum half yearly (September and March), and
at any point where the requirement is breached.
(2) The above periodical disclosures should be made separately for each
securitisation transaction, throughout its life, in the servicer report, investor
report, trustee report, or any similar document published.
112. The aforesaid disclosures shall be made in the format given in Annex 1. These
disclosures shall be made separately for each securitisation transaction
throughout the life of the transaction.
B.2 Disclosures to be made in Notes to Accounts
113. The AIFI shall be guided by Reserve Bank of India (All India Financial
Institutions – Financial Statements: Presentation and Disclosures) Directions,
2025 for all disclosure-related requirements.
B.3 Reporting of Transactions to the Reserve Bank
114. The originator must also submit the details of the securitisation transactions
undertaken, including the details of the securitisation notes issued, to the
Reserve Bank on a quarterly basis. The format for the same shall be
communicated separately and shall be effective from the date advised therein.
41

Chapter VII - Repeal and Other Provisions
A. Repeal and saving
115. With the issue of these Directions, the existing Directions, instructions, and
guidelines relating to Securitisation Transactions as applicable to All India
Financial Institutions, stand repealed, as communicated vide circular
DOR.RRC.REC.302/33-01-010/2025-26 dated November 28, 2025. The
Directions, instructions and guidelines repealed prior to the issuance of these
Directions shall continue to remain repealed.
116. Notwithstanding such repeal, any action taken or purported to have been taken,
or initiated under the repealed Directions, instructions, or guidelines shall
continue to be governed by the provisions thereof. All approvals or
acknowledgments granted under these repealed lists shall be deemed as
governed by these Directions. Further, the repeal of these directions,
instructions, or guidelines shall not in any way prejudicially affect:
(1) any right, obligation or liability acquired, accrued, or incurred thereunder;
(2) any, penalty, forfeiture, or punishment incurred in respect of any
contravention committed thereunder;
(3) any investigation, legal proceeding, or remedy in respect of any such right,
privilege, obligation, liability, penalty, forfeiture, or punishment as
aforesaid; and any such investigation, legal proceedings or remedy may
be instituted, continued, or enforced and any such penalty, forfeiture or
punishment may be imposed as if those directions, instructions, or
guidelines had not been repealed.
B. Application of other laws not barred
117. The provisions of these Directions shall be in addition to, and not in derogation
of the provisions of any other laws, rules, regulations or directions, for the time
being in force.
C. Interpretations
118. For the purpose of giving effect to the provisions of these Directions or in order
to remove any difficulties in the application or interpretation of the provisions of
these Directions, the RBI may, if it considers necessary, issue necessary
42

clarifications in respect of any matter covered herein and the interpretation of
any provision of these Directions given by the RBI shall be final and binding.
(Vaibhav Chaturvedi)
Chief General Manager
43

Annex I
Non-exhaustive* format for Disclosure Requirements in offer documents,
servicer report, investor report, etc.
Name/Identification No. of securitisation transaction:
Nature of disclosure Details Amount/
percentage/
years
1 Maturity characteristics of (i) Weighted average maturity of
the underlying assets (on the underlying assets (in years)
the date of disclosure)
(ii) Maturity-wise distribution of
underlying assets:
a) Percentage of assets
maturing within one year
b) Percentage of assets
maturing within one to
three year
c) Percentage of assets
maturing within three to
five years
d) Percentage of assets
maturing after five years
Minimum Holding Period (i) MHP required as per RBI
2 (MHP) of securitised guidelines (years/months)
assets
(ii) a) Weighted average holding
period of securitised assets at
the time of securitisation (years /
months)
b) Minimum and maximum
holding period of the securitised
assets
3 Minimum (i) MRR as per RBI guidelines as a
Retention percentage of book value of
Requirement (MRR) on assets securitised and
the date of disclosure outstanding on the date of
disclosure
44

(ii) Actual retention as a percentage
of book value of assets
securitised and outstanding on
the date of disclosure
(iii) Types of retained exposure
constituting MRR in percentage
of book value of assets
securitised (percentage of book
value of assets securitised and
outstanding on the date of
disclosure)
a) Credit Enhancement
(i.e. whether investment
in equity/subordinate
tranches, first/second
loss guarantees, cash
collateral,
overcollateralisation
b) Investment in senior tranches
c) Liquidity support
d) Any other (pl. specify)
(iv) Breaches, if any, and reasons
there for
4 Credit quality of the (i) Distribution of overdue loans
underlying loans (post securitisation)
a) Percentage of loans overdue
up to 30 days
b) Percentage of loans overdue
between 31-60 days
c) Percentage of loans overdue
between 61-90 days
d) Percentage of loans overdue
more than 90 days
(ii) Details of tangible security
available for the portfolio of
underlying loans (vehicles,
mortgages, etc.)
a) Security 1(to be named) (%
loans covered)
45

b) Security 2…
c) Security ‘n’
(iii) Extent of security cover
available for the underlying
loans
a) Percentage of loans fully
secured included in the pool (%)
b) Percentage of partly secured
loans included in the pool (%)
c) Percentage of unsecured
loans included in the pool (%)
(iv) Rating-wise distribution of
underlying loans (if these loans
are rated)
a) Internal grade of the
AIFI/external grade (highest
quality internal grade may be
indicated as 1)
1/AAA or equivalent
2
3
4…
N
b) Weighted average rating of
the pool
(v) Default rates of similar portfolios
observed in the past
a) Average default rate per
annum during last five years
b) Average default rate per
annum during last year
(vi) Upgradation/Recovery/Loss
Rates of similar portfolios
a) Percentage of NPAs
upgraded (average of the last
five years)
46

b) Amount written-off as a
percentage of NPAs in the
beginning of the year
(average of last five years)
c) Amount recovered during the
year as a percentage of
incremental NPAs during the
year (average of last five year)
(vii) Frequency distribution of LTV
ratios, in case of housing loans
and commercial real estate
loans)
a) Percentage of loans with LTV
ratio less than 60%
b) Percentage of loans with LTV
ratio between 60-75%
c) Percentage of loans with LTV
ratio greater than 75%
d) Weighted average LTV ratio
of the underlying loans (%)
(viii) Frequency distribution of Debt-
to-Income (DTI) ratios, as
applicable and/or available
a) Percentage of loans with DTI
ratio less than 60%
b) Percentage of loans with DTI
ratio between 60-75%
c) Percentage of loans with DTI
ratio greater than 75%
d) Weighted average DTI ratio
of the underlying loans (%)
(ix) Prepayment Rates
a) Prepayment rate observed in
the current portfolio
b) Prepayment rate observed of
similar portfolio in the past
5 Other characteristics of the (i) Industry-wise breakup of the
loan pool loans in case of mixed pools (%)
Industry 1
47

Industry 2
Industry 3…
Industry n
(ii) Geographical distribution of loan
pools (statewise) (%)
State 1
State 2
State 3
State 4
* The above format should be considered as a baseline disclosure. Based on the
product characteristics and market expectation, adequate disclosure, in addition to
items mentioned above, must be made to reflect the true picture of securitised pools
at all times.
48