भारतीय �रज़वर् बैंक
RESERVE BANK OF INDIA
RBI/CEPD/2025-26/385
CEPD.PRD.No.S1031/13.01.019/2025-26 January 14, 2026
Reserve Bank of India (Non-Bank Prepaid Payment Instruments Issuers - Internal
Ombudsman) Directions, 2026
In exercise of the powers conferred by Section 18 of the Payment and Settlement
Systems Act, 2007, the Reserve Bank of India, being satisfied that it is necessary and
expedient in the public interest so to do, hereby, issues the Directions hereinafter
specified.
These Directions are issued with a view to strengthen the Internal Grievance Redress
mechanism within a non-bank prepaid payment instruments issuer and ensure a speedy
and meaningful resolution of customer complaints by enabling a review before their
rejection, by an apex level authority within the non-bank prepaid payment instruments
issuer.
Chapter I
Preliminary
1. Short Title and Commencement
(1) These Directions shall be called the Reserve Bank of India (Non-Bank Prepaid
Payment Instruments Issuers - Internal Ombudsman) Directions, 2026.
(2) These Directions shall come into force with immediate effect except clause 7(2),
14(2) and 14(4) which shall be complied with, latest by June 30, 2026.
2. Suspension
(1) The Reserve Bank, if it is satisfied that it is expedient so to do, may, by an order,
suspend for such period as may be specified in the order, the operation of any or all of
the provisions of these Directions, either generally or in relation to any specified regulated
entity.

(2) The Reserve Bank may by an order, extend from time to time, the period of any
suspension ordered as aforesaid by such period, as it may deem fit.
3. Applicability
(1) These Directions shall be applicable to Non-Bank Prepaid Payment Instruments
Issuers (hereinafter collectively referred to as 'PPI issuers' and individually as a 'PPI
issuer') as defined under clause 4(1)(h) of these Directions and having more than one
crore Prepaid Payment Instruments outstanding as on March 31, 2025, or thereafter.
(2) The directions shall also be applicable to the PPI issuers, which meets the above
mentioned criteria after March 31, 2025, with effect from six months from meeting the
eligibility criteria. The directions shall continue to remain applicable to a PPI issuer, even
if the number of Prepaid Payment Instruments outstanding falls below the threshold at a
later date.
4. Definitions
(1) In these Directions, unless the context states otherwise, the terms herein shall bear
the meanings assigned to them as below:
(a) “Competent Authority” means Managing Director/ Chief Executive Officer of
the PPI issuer;
(b) “Complaint” means a representation in writing or through other modes alleging
deficiency in service on the part of the PPI issuer with or without seeking relief
thereon;
(c) “Customer” means a person who uses, or is an applicant for, a service provided
by the PPI issuer;
(d) “Deficiency in service” means a shortcoming or an inadequacy in any service,
which the PPI issuer is required to provide statutorily or otherwise, which may or
may not result in financial loss or damage to the customer;
(e) “Deputy Internal Ombudsman (Dy. IO)” means any person appointed under
clause 6 of these Directions;
(f) “Financial Sector Regulatory Body” means regulatory body for financial sector
entities and includes:
2

(i) The Reserve Bank of India established under the Reserve Bank of India
Act, 1934;
(ii) The Securities and Exchange Board of India established under the
Securities and Exchange Board of India Act, 1992;
(iii) The Insurance Regulatory and Development Authority of India
established under the Insurance Regulatory and Development Authority of
India Act, 1999;
(iv) The Pension Fund Regulatory and Development Authority established
under the Pension Fund Regulatory and Development Authority Act, 2013;
(g) “Internal Ombudsman (IO)” means any person appointed under clause 5 of
these Directions;
(h) “Non-Bank Prepaid Payment Instruments Issuer” means a company, as defined
in the Companies Act, 2013, which has been granted a Certificate of Authorisation
by the Reserve Bank of India under Section 7(1) of the Payment and Settlement
Systems Act, 2007 (51 of 2007) to operate as a Prepaid Payment Instrument
Issuer (PPI);
(i) “Regulated Entity (RE)” means a commercial bank or payments bank or small
finance bank or a non-banking financial company or a non-bank prepaid payment
instrument issuer or a credit information company which are covered under the
purview of the Internal Ombudsman framework, or any other entity as may be
specified by the Reserve Bank from time to time.
(2) All other expressions, unless defined herein, shall have the same meaning as
assigned to them under the Banking Regulation Act, 1949, the Reserve Bank of India
Act, 1934, the Payment and Settlement Systems Act, 2007, the Credit Information
Companies (Regulation) Act, 2005, the Credit Information Companies Rules, 2006, the
Credit Information Companies Regulations, 2006, or the Reserve Bank - Integrated
Ombudsman Scheme (as amended from time to time) or regulations, directions and
guidelines issued by the Reserve Bank of India.
3

Chapter II
Office of the Internal Ombudsman
5. Appointment of Internal Ombudsman
(1) The IO shall either be a retired or serving officer, in the rank equivalent to a General
Manager in the RE under the purview of the Internal Ombudsman framework or a
Financial Sector Regulatory Body, having necessary skills and experience of minimum
seven years of working in areas such as banking, non-banking finance, regulation,
supervision, payment and settlement systems, credit information or consumer protection.
Provided that, if the person is a serving officer, he / she is required to relinquish
the same before assuming charge as IO.
(2) The IO shall previously not have been employed, nor presently be employed, by
the PPI issuer or a holding, associate or subsidiary company of the PPI issuer.
(3) The IO shall not be over 70 years of age before the completion of the tenure.
(4) A person may work as the IO in more than one RE simultaneously at the discretion
of the REs concerned, subject to the approval of the Board or Customer Service
Committee / Consumer Protection Committee of the Board of the appointing RE.
6. Appointment of Deputy Internal Ombudsman
(1) The Dy. IO shall either be a retired or serving officer, in the rank equivalent to a
Deputy General Manager in the RE under the purview of the Internal Ombudsman
framework or a Financial Sector Regulatory Body, having necessary skills and experience
of minimum five years of working in areas such as banking, non-banking finance,
regulation, supervision, payment and settlement systems, credit information or consumer
protection.
Provided that, if the person is a serving officer, he / she is required to relinquish
the same before assuming charge as Dy. IO.
(2) The Dy. IO shall previously not have been employed, nor presently be employed,
by the PPI issuer or a holding, associate or subsidiary company of the PPI issuer.
(3) The Dy. IO shall not be over 70 years of age before the completion of the tenure.
(4) The Dy. IO shall not be employed in more than one RE simultaneously.
4

7. Number of Internal Ombudsman / Deputy Internal Ombudsman
(1) Every eligible PPI issuer shall appoint at least one IO.
(2) The Board of the PPI issuer shall determine, at least once in a year, the number
of IO/ Dy. IO to be appointed having due regard to volume and complexity of the
complaints received, and ensuring that the IO/ Dy. IO get sufficient time to apply his/her
mind on the principles of fairness, equity and natural justice while reviewing the resolution
provided by the PPI issuer.
(3) While appointing additional IO / Dy. IO, the PPI issuer shall consider the need for
diversity of experience of the incumbents to deal with different types of cases. In such
cases, the PPI issuer may clearly define the jurisdiction of each IO / Dy. IO.
8. Tenure of Internal Ombudsman / Deputy Internal Ombudsman
(1) The appointment of the IO / Dy. IO in the PPI issuer shall be contractual.
(2) The PPI issuer shall ensure that the post of the IO does not remain vacant at any
point of time. During the temporary absence of the IO, the Dy. IO may function as the IO.
(3) In a rare case where both IO/s and Dy IO/s are on leave / absent, the PPI issuer
may designate its serving official equivalent to the General Manager rank as the IO for a
period not exceeding one month, with the approval of the Board. Such official shall not
have any reporting relationship with the business verticals of the PPI issuer during the
period in which he/she is designated as the IO.
(4) The tenure of the IO / Dy. IO in the PPI issuer shall be a fixed term of not less than
three years. However, the total tenure (including extension/reappointment, if any) of the
IO / Dy. IO in the PPI issuer shall not exceed five years.
(5) To fill a vacancy, the PPI issuer shall undertake the process of fresh appointment
at least three months in advance of the expiry of the tenure of the incumbent IO and
ensure that there is a reasonable overlap between the time of demitting of office of the
outgoing IO and the incoming IO.
(6) The IO / Dy. IO shall not be removed before the completion of his/her contracted
term without the approval of the Board. In case a vacancy arises on account of reasons
beyond the control of the PPI issuer (such as resignation, incapacitation, illness, death,
5

etc.), the PPI issuer shall inform Reserve Bank of India within 10 working days from the
date of such vacancy and shall appoint a new IO / Dy. IO as per eligibility criteria specified
under clause 5 and clause 6 of these Directions within three months from the date of
vacancy.
(7) The Board of the PPI issuer shall determine the structure of emoluments, facilities
and benefits accorded to the IO / Dy. IO, which should be appropriate keeping in view
the stature and position of the IO / Dy. IO being at the apex of the grievance redress
mechanism of the PPI issuer as also the need to attract experienced persons with
requisite expertise. These emoluments, facilities and benefits accorded to the IO / Dy.
IO, once determined, shall not be changed adversely during the tenure of the IO / Dy. IO.
9. Administrative Oversight
(1) The IO shall report to the Competent Authority, as defined under clause 4(1)(a) of
the Directions, of the PPI issuer administratively, and to the Board of the PPI issuer
functionally.
10. Secretariat of the office of Internal Ombudsman
(1) The PPI issuer shall provide such number of its officers and staff to the office of
the IO as is considered necessary for the smooth functioning of the office of the IO.
(2) All other requisite office infrastructure, including information technology support
shall be made available to the office of the IO to enable the IO/ Dy. IO to discharge the
responsibilities effectively and efficiently.
(3) The office of the IO may preferably be placed in the Head Office or Corporate
Office of the PPI issuer.
11. Internal Audit
(1) The Internal Audit Department of the PPI issuer shall conduct an audit of the
implementation of these Directions on an annual basis, covering, inter-alia:
(a) The process of appointment / reappointment of the IO/Dy. IO, adequacy of the
human resources and infrastructure provided to the office of the IO in relation to
the volume of complaints;
6

(b) Implementation of auto-escalation of the partially resolved or wholly rejected
complaints to the office of the IO within the timelines;
(c) Action taken by the office of the IO with regard to analysis of complaints, reports
submitted to the Reserve Bank of India and the PPI issuer, raising awareness of
the staff of the PPI issuer about the grievance redressal processes, and such other
processes;
(d) Submission of the information related to appointment of the IO / Dy. IO and
submission of periodic report on the functioning of the IO by the PPI issuer to the
Reserve Bank.
(2) The scope of the internal audit shall exclude any assessment of the correctness of
decisions taken by the IO / Dy. IO.
7

Chapter – III
Role and Responsibilities
12. Role and Responsibilities of Internal Ombudsman / Deputy Internal
Ombudsman
(1) The office of the IO shall not handle complaints received directly from the
complainants or members of the public. It shall deal with the complaints that have already
been examined by the PPI issuer but have been partially resolved or being wholly rejected
by the PPI issuer.
(2) The IO / Dy. IO shall not represent the PPI issuer in legal cases before any court
or fora or authority.
(3) While the IO may decide any or all complaints, the power for the Dy. IO to decide
the complaints may be defined under a policy approved by the Board.
(4) The IO / Dy. IO shall recommend suitable compensation to the complainant, as
per the compensation prescribed by the Reserve Bank of India in its extant guidelines, if
any, and as per the compensation policy of the PPI issuer, if any, in case there is no
prescription from the Reserve Bank of India.
(5) The IO may recommend compensation in accordance with the Reserve Bank -
Integrated Ombudsman Scheme, as amended from time to time, for any consequential
loss and the loss of time, expenses incurred and harassment / mental agony suffered by
the complainant, over and above the compensation recommended in clause 12(4).
(6) The office of IO shall, on a quarterly basis, analyse the pattern of all complaints
received against the PPI issuer, such as product-wise, category-wise, consumer group-
wise, geographical location-wise, etc., and provide inputs to the PPI issuer for policy
intervention, if so warranted.
(7) The IO shall suggest means for taking actions to address the root cause of
complaints of similar / repeat nature and those that require policy level changes in the
PPI issuer.
(8) The IO/ Dy. IO shall have ‘read-only’ access to the Reserve Bank’s Complaint
Management System to enable them to keep abreast of decisions of the RBI
8

Ombudsman/ Appellate Authority. The PPI issuer shall seek such access for the IO / Dy.
IO from the Consumer Education and Protection Department of the Reserve Bank.
(9) The Dy. IO shall functionally report to the IO.
13. Board Oversight
(1) The IO shall be designated as a permanent invitee to the meetings of the Board.
In PPI issuers having multiple IOs, a view shall be taken by the Board to have
representation of more than one IO or having a system of rotation.
(2) The IO shall furnish periodic reports (including the analysis of complaints) on his /
her activities to the Board, preferably at quarterly, but not less than half yearly, intervals.
(3) The decision of the IO / Dy. IO can be overruled only with the approval of the
Competent Authority as defined under clause 4(1)(a) of these Directions.
(4) All such cases where the decision of the IO / Dy. IO has been overruled by the
Competent Authority shall be placed before the Board of the PPI issuer for review.
(5) Information on the complaints resolved by the RBI Ombudsman in favour of
complainant, either partially or fully, shall also be placed before the Board, on quarterly
basis. The information shall be accompanied with an analysis of minimum top five
categories of complaints along with remedial measures so as to avoid complaints of a
similar nature in future.
9

Chapter - IV
Procedural Guidelines for PPI issuers
14. Procedure for Complaint Redress by Internal Ombudsman / Deputy Internal
Ombudsman
(1) A fully automated Complaints Management System shall be put in place by the
PPI issuer and access to the System shall be provided to the IO / Dy. IO. All complaints
that are partially resolved or wholly rejected by the PPI issuer’s internal grievance redress
mechanism shall be auto escalated to the office of the IO for review;
a) in case of complaints, for which Reserve Bank of India, National Payments
Corporation of India, or card network guidelines prescribe a timeline for resolution,
sufficiently in advance such that IO / Dy. IO gets at least 10 days for review of such
complaints to enable final decision to be communicated to the complainants within
the timelines prescribed by Reserve Bank of India, National Payments Corporation
of India, or card network, as applicable;
b) in all other cases, within 20 days of receipt.
(2) The PPI issuer shall provide only three categories i.e. ‘Fully Resolved’, ‘Partially
Resolved’ and ‘Wholly Rejected’ in its Complaint Management System for recording the
decision on the complaints before escalation to the office of IO. The complaints outside
the purview of the IO / Dy. IO under the clauses 14(5)(c) to 14(5)(e) are exempted from
such classification.
(3) The PPI issuer shall formulate a Standard Operating Procedure (SOP) for flow of
complaints and information in a time bound manner.
(4) The PPI issuer shall ensure that a complaint is not closed by the same branch /
unit / other touch points, whether it has been resolved (fully or partially) or rejected. A
complaint which is being wholly rejected or partially resolved shall be reviewed at a fairly
senior level, which the PPI issuer may decide as deemed fit, before sending it to the office
of IO.
(5) The following types of complaints shall be outside the purview of these Directions
and shall not be handled by the IO/ Dy. IO:
10

a) Complaints related to corporate frauds, misappropriation etc., on the part of the
PPI issuer that do not impact the customer in any manner;
b) References in the nature of suggestions and commercial decisions of PPI issuer.
However, service deficiencies in cases falling under ‘commercial decisions’ will be
valid complaints for the office of the IO;
c) Complaints / references relating to (i) internal administration, (ii) human resources,
or (iii) pay and emoluments of staff in the PPI issuer;
d) Complaints which have been decided by or are already pending in judicial / quasi-
judicial fora such as Courts, Consumer Disputes Redressal Commission,
Arbitration, etc.;
e) Disputes for which remedy has been provided under Section 18 of the Credit
Information Companies (Regulation) Act, 2005.
The PPI issuer shall forward all rejected / partially resolved complaints under the
categories (a) and (b) above to the IO / Dy. IO, who shall look for inherent deficiency in
service in such cases and take a view whether any of these complaints can be exempted
under (a) and / or (b) above as decided by the PPI issuer. Complaints that are outside the
purview of these Directions shall be immediately returned back to the PPI issuer by the
IO / Dy. IO.
(6) The IO / Dy. IO shall examine the complaints based on records available with the
PPI issuer, including any documents submitted by the complainant and comments/
clarifications furnished by the PPI issuer to the specific queries of the IO.
(7) The IO/ Dy. IO may hold meetings with the concerned functionaries of the PPI
issuer and seek any additional record / document available with the PPI issuer that are
necessary for examining the complaint and reviewing the decision.
(8) The IO / Dy. IO may, if they find it necessary, seek written or oral submission
(including additional information and documents) from the complainant, through the
secretariat.
(9) The PPI issuer shall ensure that the final decision is communicated to the
complainant within a period of 30 days from the date of receipt of complaint by the PPI
issuer.
(10) The IO / Dy. IO shall record a “reasoned decision” in each case.
11

(11) Where the IO / Dy. IO upholds the decision of the PPI issuer to reject or partially
resolve the complaint, the reply to the complainant should explicitly state that the said
complaint has been reviewed by the IO / Dy. IO.
(12) For complaints that are partially resolved or wholly rejected after examination by
the IO / Dy. IO, the PPI issuer shall advise the complainant about the option of
approaching the RBI Ombudsman for redress (excluding complaints not covered under
the Reserve Bank - Integrated Ombudsman Scheme, as amended from time to time)
along with complete details of the complaint. The PPI issuer in its reply shall also mention
the URL of Reserve Bank’s Complaint Management System portal for online filing of
customer complaints (https://cms.rbi.org.in) and the physical / email address of the
Centralised Receipt and Processing Centre1.
(13) When a complaint is escalated to the RBI Ombudsman, the decision of the IO /
Dy. IO shall be mandatorily included in the information to be submitted by the PPI issuer
to the RBI Ombudsman if the complaint was already reviewed by the IO / Dy. IO. In case,
the complaint was not earlier reviewed by the IO / Dy. IO, the PPI issuer shall necessarily
seek his/ her comments and submit the same to the RBI Ombudsman.
(14) The PPI issuer shall use the analysis of complaints handled by IO / Dy. IO in the
training programmes / conferences to raise awareness about the pattern of complaints
including the root causes, remedial measures, etc., among the frontline staff, in order to
evolve consistency in handling of complaints. The IO / Dy. IO may also be involved in
such trainings, where necessary.
(15) While assessing the performance of the IO / Dy. IO, in addition to the level of
pendency and work done by the IO / Dy. IO towards developing uniformity across the PPI
issuer in the redress of complaints, the Board shall also analyse the number of cases
where there is substantive difference between the decisions of the IO / Dy. IO vis-à-vis
those given by the RBI Ombudsman subsequently.
(16) The PPI issuer shall widely disseminate the guidelines / instructions regarding
these Directions among the staff while communicating the appointment of IO/ Dy. IO
within the organization (all branches and administrative offices).
1 Centralized Receipt and Processing Centre (CRPC) Reserve Bank of India, Central Vista, Sector 17,
Chandigarh - 160 017 (email: crpc@rbi.org.in)
12

(17) The PPI issuer shall not provide the contact details of the IO / Dy. IO in the public
domain as the IO / Dy. IO shall not handle complaints received directly from the
customers.
13

Chapter - V
Regulatory and Supervisory Oversight by the Reserve Bank
15. Supervisory Oversight
(1) The areas relating to customer service and customer grievance redress, as well
as the implementation of these Directions, shall be a part of the supervisory review by the
Department of Payment and Settlement Systems of the Reserve Bank.
(2) Consumer Education and Protection Department of the Reserve Bank may review
the cases where the decision of the IO / Dy. IO has not been accepted by the PPI issuer
and the aggrieved complainant approaches the RBI Ombudsman, for assessing the
effectiveness of the internal grievance redress mechanism of the PPI issuer and initiating
corrective actions as it may deem fit.
16. Reporting to Reserve Bank
(1) The PPI issuer shall, within five working days of appointment of the IO or Dy. IO,
furnish the details of the official so appointed to the Consumer Education and Protection
Department, Central Office, Reserve Bank of India (email: iocepd@rbi.org.in) in the
following format:
1. Name of the IO / Dy. IO
2. Details of the last positions held/ organisation
3. Date of Appointment / Reappointment
4. Date of Birth
5. Term (in years)
6. Brief professional profile, including previous exposure to financial
services highlighting those that make them eligible for appointment
7. Contact details (telephone, email, address)
8. Date of intimation to the Reserve Bank
(2) The PPI issuer shall put in place a system of periodic reporting of information to the
Consumer Education and Protection Department, Central Office, Reserve Bank of India,
on a quarterly basis as per format provided in the Annexure. The report shall be
14

submitted on or before the 15th day of the month following the quarter to which it relates
to.
15

Chapter - VI
Repeal Provisions
17. Repeal of the existing Schemes
(1) With the issue of these Directions, the Master Direction - Reserve Bank of India
(Internal Ombudsman for Regulated Entities) Directions, 2023 dated December 29, 2023
issued by the Reserve Bank stands repealed.
(2) All appointments / actions under the aforesaid Master Direction, prior to the coming
into effect of these Directions, shall be deemed to have been made under these
Directions.
(Dr. Neena Rohit Jain)
Chief General Manager
16

Annexure
Report on functioning of the Internal Ombudsman
Report for quarter ended:
Name of the PPI issuer:
Part I: Information pertaining to the complaints referred to IO / Dy. IO
S.No Particulars Number
1 Number of Internal Ombudsman (IO)
2 Number of Deputy Internal Ombudsman (Dy.IO)
Number of staff assigned to the office of the IO (excluding
3
Dy.IO)
4 Number of complaints pending at the end of previous quarter
5 Number of complaints received during the quarter
6 Of (4 & 5), number of complaints fully resolved
7 Of (4 & 5), number of complaints partially resolved
8 Of (4 & 5), number of complaints wholly rejected
9 Number of complaints partially resolved or wholly rejected (7)+(8)
10 Number of complaints pending at the end of the quarter
IO Dy. IO
Of (9), number of complaints referred to the IO / Dy.IO within
11
20 days of receipt
Of (9) number of complaints referred to the IO / Dy.IO after 20
12
days of receipt
Of (12), number of complaints referred to the IO / Dy.IO
13 beyond 20 days due to Turnaround Time prescribed by RBI,
NPCI or card networks
Of (11 & 12), number of complaints where decision has been
14
provided by IO / Dy.IO
Of (14), number of complaints where IO / Dy.IO has upheld the
15
decision of the PPI issuer
Of (14), number of complaints where IO / Dy.IO has not upheld
16
the decision of the PPI issuer
Of (16), number of complaints where the decision of the IO /
17
Dy.IO implemented by the PPI issuer
17

S.No Particulars Number
Of (16), number of complaints where the decision of the IO /
18
Dy.IO is pending for implementation
Of (16), number of complaints where the PPI issuer has
19 disagreed with the decision of IO / Dy.IO, with the approval of
the Competent Authority
Number of complaints which were resolved by the RBI
20
Ombudsman and not referred to the IO/ Dy.IO earlier
Number of complaints where the decisions of the IO / Dy.IO
21
were not upheld by the RBI Ombudsman
Number of complaints in which the IO / Dy. IO sought inputs
22
from the complainants directly for resolution of complaints
Number of complaints in which the IO / Dy. IO provided
23
compensation
Part II: Information pertaining to Root Cause Analysis by the IO
1. Major findings from the Root Cause Analysis
2. Details of the suggestions made by the IO and accepted by the Board.
18