भारतीय �रज़वर् बैंक
RESERVE BANK OF INDIA
RBI/DOR/2025-26/149
DOR.HGG.GOV. No.68/29.67.001/2025-26 November 28, 2025
Reserve Bank of India (Commercial Banks - Governance) Directions, 2025
Table of Contents
Chapter-I Preliminary ............................................................................................................. 3
A. Short title and commencement ............................................................................... 3
B. Applicability .............................................................................................................. 3
C. Definitions ................................................................................................................. 4
Chapter-II Public Sector Banks ............................................................................................. 7
A. Role of the Board ..................................................................................................... 7
B. Board Structure and Practices ................................................................................ 7
C. Committees of the Board ......................................................................................... 9
D. Fit and Proper’ Criteria for Elected Directors ...................................................... 11
E. Appointment of Chief Risk Officer ........................................................................ 16
F. Appointment of Chief Vigilance Officer ................................................................ 17
G. Appointment of Chief Financial Officer and Chief Technical Officer ................ 17
H. Appointment of Company Secretary .................................................................... 18
I. Appointment of Nominee Directors on assisted companies ............................. 18
Chapter-III Private Sector Banks ......................................................................................... 21
A. Constitution of Board and Appointment of Directors ......................................... 21
B. MD&CEO / CEO, Part-time Chairman and Whole-time Directors ....................... 24
C. Role of the Board and Individual Directors .......................................................... 25
D. Board Structure and Practices .............................................................................. 30
E. Committees of the Board ....................................................................................... 30

F. Appointment of Chief Risk Officer ........................................................................ 30
G. Appointment of Chief Financial Officer and Chief Technical Officer ................ 30
H. Remuneration of NEDs, WTDs, MD&CEO / CEO, Material Risk Takers, and
Control Function staff ...................................................................................................... 30
I. Regulatory approvals and Reporting ................................................................... 39
Chapter-IV Foreign Banks .................................................................................................... 42
Chapter-V Repeal and other provisions ............................................................................. 44
Annex I ................................................................................................................................... 46
Annex II .................................................................................................................................. 54
Annex III ................................................................................................................................. 60
Annex IV ................................................................................................................................ 62
Annex V ................................................................................................................................. 66
Annex VI ................................................................................................................................ 69

In exercise of the powers conferred by Section 35A of the Banking Regulation
Act, 1949, sub-section (2) of Section 19A of the State Bank of India Act, 1955
[hereinafter referred to as SBI Act]; and sub-sections (3AA) & (3AB) of Section 9 of the
Banking Companies (Acquisition and Transfer of Undertakings) Act, 1970 / 1980 and
all other provisions / laws enabling the Reserve Bank of India (‘RBI’) in this regard, RBI
being satisfied that it is necessary and expedient in the public interest so to do, hereby
issues the Directions hereinafter specified.
Chapter-I Preliminary
A. Short title and commencement
1. These Directions shall be called the Reserve Bank of India (Commercial Banks:
Governance) Directions, 2025.
2. These Directions shall come into force with immediate effect.
B. Applicability
3. These Directions shall be applicable to Commercial Banks (hereinafter collectively
referred to as 'banks' and individually as a 'bank').
For the purpose of these Directions, ‘Commercial Banks’ mean banking
companies (other than Small Finance Banks, Payment Banks, and Local Area
Banks), corresponding new banks, and the State Bank of India, as defined
respectively under clauses (c), (da), and (nc) of Section 5 of the Banking
Regulation Act, 1949.
4. In this regard:
(i) Public Sector Banks (hereinafter collectively referred to as ‘PSBs’ and
individually as a ‘PSB’) shall be governed by provisions specified in
Chapter II to the extent they are not inconsistent with their statutory
provisions or instructions issued thereunder.
(ii) Private Sector Banks (hereinafter collectively referred to as ‘PVBs’ and
individually as a ‘PVB’) shall be governed by provisions specified in
Chapter III.
3

(iii) Foreign Banks (hereinafter collectively referred to as ‘FBs’ and
individually as a ‘FB’) shall be governed by provisions specified in Chapter
IV.
Provided that non-scheduled commercial banks shall be exempt from
provisions contained in:
(a) paragraph 29 to paragraph 33 and paragraph 59 relating to
‘Appointment of Chief Risk Officer’; and
(b) paragraph 36 and paragraph 60 pertaining to ‘Appointment of
Chief Financial Officer and Chief Technical Officer’.
5. The contents of this Master Direction shall be read along with other relevant
governing statutes and shall be applicable notwithstanding anything to the
contrary contained in the licensing conditions, notifications, directions,
regulations, guidelines, instructions, etc., issued by RBI before the issue of these
Directions.
C. Definitions
6. In these Directions, unless the context states otherwise, the terms herein shall
bear the meanings assigned to them below:
(1) ‘Chairperson’ means the Chairman / Part-time Chairman of the Board of Directors
of a bank.
(2) ‘Clawback’ means a contractual agreement between the employee and the
regulated entity in which the employee agrees to return previously paid or vested
remuneration to the entity under certain circumstances.
(3) ‘Director’ means a director appointed to the Board of a bank.
(4) ‘Elected Director’ or ‘Shareholder Director’ means a director referred to in Section
19(c) of the SBI Act, and clause (i) of sub-section (3) of Section 9 of the Banking
Companies (Acquisition and Transfer of Undertakings) Act, 1970 / 1980.
(5) ‘Government of India Nominee Director’ means a director referred to in Section
19(e) of the SBI Act and Section 9(3)(b) of the Banking Companies (Acquisition
and Transfer of Undertakings) Act, 1970 / 1980.
4

(6) ‘Independent Director’ shall be as defined in Section 149(6) of the Companies Act,
2013. In case of PSBs, Non-Official Directors as clarified by GoI from time to time,
shall be deemed as Independent Directors.
(7) ‘Major shareholder’ shall have the same meaning as under the Reserve Bank of
India (Commercial Banks – Acquisition and Holding of Shares or Voting Rights)
Directions, 2025
(8) ‘Malus’ means an arrangement that permits a bank to prevent vesting of all or part
of the amount of a deferred remuneration. Malus arrangement does not reverse
vesting after it has already occurred.
(9) ‘Nationalised bank’ means a corresponding new bank constituted under sub-
section (1) of Section 3 of the Banking Companies (Acquisition and Transfer of
Undertakings) Acts, 1970 / 1980.
(10) ‘Non-official director’ means director referred to in Section 9(3)(g), (h) & (i) of the
Banking Companies (Acquisition and Transfer of Undertakings) Act, 1970 / 1980,
and Section 19(c) & (d) of SBI Act.
(11) ‘Non-Operative Financial Holding Company’ (NOFHC) means a non-deposit
taking NBFC which holds the shares of a banking company and the shares of all
other financial services companies in its group, whether regulated by RBI or by
any other financial regulator, to the extent permissible under the applicable
regulatory prescriptions.
(12) ‘Relative’ shall have the meaning assigned to it under clause 77 of Section 2 of
the Companies Act, 2013.
(13) ‘Retention period’ means the period of time after the vesting of instruments which
have been awarded as variable pay during which they cannot be sold or
accessed.
(14) ‘Scheduled bank’ shall mean a bank included in the Second Schedule to the
Reserve Bank of India Act, 1934.
(15) ‘State Bank of India’ means the State Bank of India constituted under Section 3 of
the SBI Act, 1955.
(16) ‘Substantial interest’ shall have the same meaning as assigned to it in Section
5(ne) of the Banking Regulation Act, 1949
5

7. All other expressions, unless defined herein, shall have the same meaning as
have been assigned to them under the Reserve Bank of India Act, 1934 or the
Banking Regulation Act, 1949 or the State Bank of India Act, 1955 or the Banking
Companies (Acquisition and Transfer of Undertakings) Act, 1970 / 1980 or the
Companies Act, 2013 and Rules made thereunder, or any statutory modification
or re-enactment thereto, or Glossary of Terms published by RBI or as used in
common or commercial parlance, as the case may be
6

Chapter-II Public Sector Banks
A. Role of the Board
8. A PSB’s Board shall fulfil four major roles viz. overseeing the risk profile of the
PSB, monitoring the integrity of its business and control mechanisms, ensuring
the expert management, and maximising the interests of its stakeholders.
9. The Board of a PSB shall ensure that responsibilities of its directors are well-
defined, and every director is familiarised with the functioning of the PSB before
their induction, covering the following essential areas:
(i) delegation of powers to various authorities by the Board,
(ii) strategic plan of the institution
(iii) organizational structure
(iv) financial and other controls and systems
(v) economic features of the market and competitive environment.
10. The Board of a PSB needs to set and enforce clear lines of responsibility and
accountability for itself as well as the senior management and throughout the
organization.
11. A PSB shall institutionalise discussions between its management and the Board
on quality of internal control systems. The Board shall specifically pay attention to
creating and sustaining a culture of control.
B. Board Structure and Practices
12. The Chair of the Board of a PSB shall be an independent director. In the absence
of the Chair of the Board, the meetings of the Board shall be chaired by an
independent director.
13. The quorum for the Board meetings shall be one-third of the total strength of the
Board or three directors, whichever is higher. At least half of the directors
attending the meetings of the Board shall be independent directors.
14. A PSB shall determine the Board agenda items and the periodicity thereof, with
the approval of their Boards, such that there is adequate focus on matters of
strategic and financial importance, including the seven broad themes indicated
below:
7

Category Description
Development of new products
Business
Competitiveness of individual businesses
Strategy
Business reviews in relation to targets.
Policies concerning credit, operational, market, liquidity
Risk risks
Assessing the independence of the risk function.
Financial Detailed scrutiny of quarterly and annual financial results;
Reports and NPA management and
their integrity Integrity of reported NPA and provisioning
Regulatory requirements
Adherence to RBI and SEBI norms
Observations from the annual financial inspection by RBI
Compliance and from the Long Form Audit Report
Review of decisions in previous minutes of meetings, and
key decisions within subsidiaries
Review of action taken reports
Appointments to Board committees
Mis-selling, particularly third-party products
Laying down the appropriateness of products to different
Customer
customer segments
Protection
Understanding the broad trends and concentration in the
growth of customer grievances and their resolution
Review of priority sector lending;
Financial Payments for the disadvantaged;
Inclusion Deposit mobilization from weaker sections
Support to microfinance institutions and other issues
Appointments and approvals of directors
Perks and perquisites for employees,
Human
Incentive schemes for employees
Resources
Promotion policies for employees
Training and skill development of employees
15. The Board shall maintain oversight on the following:
(i) risk management system, policy and strategy followed by the PSB;
(ii) exposures to related entities of the PSB, viz. details of lending to /
investment in subsidiaries, the asset classification of such lending /
investment, etc.; and
(iii) conformity with corporate governance standards viz. in composition of
various committees, their role and functions, periodicity of the meetings
and compliance with coverage and review functions etc.
8

16. The Board of a PSB shall review the status of the action taken on points arising
from the earlier meetings till action is completed to the satisfaction of the Board,
and any pending item shall continue to be put up as part of the agenda items
before the Board.
17. A PSB shall place before its Board, copies of all directives / circulars and other
important communications from RBI and the Government along with adequate
background and supplementary information of the policies and instructions sought
to be conveyed in the said circulars.
18. To enable the Board of a PSB to concentrate on strategic issues, the following
may be assigned to a Committee of the Board:
(i) reviews dealing with various performance areas. Only a summary on each
of the reviews may be put up to the Board at periodic intervals;
(ii) monitoring of the exposures (both credit and investment) of the PSB;
(iii) review of the adequacy of the risk management process and upgradation
thereof;
(iv) internal control system;
(v) ensuring compliance with the statutory / regulatory framework, etc.
19. To improve the manner in which the proceedings of Board Meetings are recorded
and followed up, a PSB shall provide the following information to its Board:
(i) a summary of key observations made by the directors which shall be
submitted in the next Board meeting; and
(ii) a detailed recording of the proceedings clearly bringing out the
observations, dissents, etc. by the individual directors which shall be
forwarded to them for their confirmation.
C. Committees of the Board
20. Audit Committee of the Board
(1) A PSB shall set up an Audit Committee of the Board (ACB) comprising only Non-
Executive Directors (NEDs). The members shall have the ability to understand all
financial statements as well as the notes / reports attached thereto and at least
one member shall have requisite professional expertise / qualification in financial
9

accounting or financial management [e.g., experience in application of accounting
standards and practices, including internal controls around it].
Provided that, the Chair of the Board shall not be a member of the ACB.
In this regard, the bank shall also refer to Circulars DoS.No.5/16.13.100/94 dated
April 09, 1994; DOS.No.BC.14/Admn./919/16.13.100/95 dated September 26,
1995; DoS.No.BC.3/08.91.020/96 dated January 20, 1997;
DBS.ARS.BC4/08.91.020/2015-16 dated September 24, 2015 and
DBS.ARS.BC.01/08.91.020/2017-18 dated July 13, 2017 containing instructions
on the constitution, functions, and oversight responsibilities of the ACB.
(2) The Chair of the ACB shall not be a member of any committee of the Board which
has a mandate of sanctioning credit exposures.
(3) The meetings of the ACB shall be chaired by an independent director who shall
not chair any other committee of the Board.
(4) The ACB shall meet at least once in a quarter with a quorum of three members.
At least two-thirds of the members attending the meeting of the ACB shall be
independent directors.
In this regard, the bank shall also refer to Circulars DoS.No.BC.18/08.91.020/96
dated September 23, 1996 and DBS.ARS.BC.No.4/08.91.020/2010-11 dated
November 10, 2010 on review mechanisms, and calendar of reviews for the Audit
Committee of the Board (ACB).
21. Risk Management Committee
(1) The Board of a PSB shall constitute a Risk Management Committee of the Board
(RMCB) with a majority of NEDs.
(2) The Chair of the Board may be a member of the RMCB only if they have the
requisite risk management expertise.
(3) The RMCB shall meet at least once in each quarter with a quorum of three
members. At least half of the members attending the meeting of the RMCB shall
be independent directors of which at least one member shall have professional
expertise / qualification in risk management. The bank shall also refer to
‘Guidance Note on Management of Credit Risk’.
10

(4) Meetings of RMCB shall be chaired by an independent director who shall not be
a Chair of the Board or any other committee of the Board.
22. Nomination and Remuneration Committee
(1) A PSB shall constitute a Nomination and Remuneration Committee (NRC)
consisting of only NEDs.
(2) The Government of India nominee director and the director nominated under
Section 19(f) of the SBI Act / Section 9(3)(c) of the Banking Companies
(Acquisition and Transfer of Undertakings) Act, 1970 / 1980 shall not be part of
the Committee.
(3) The Chair of the Board shall not chair the NRC.
(4) The NRC shall meet with a quorum of three members. At least half of the members
attending the meeting of the NRC shall be independent directors, of which one
shall be a member of the RMCB.
(5) The meetings of the NRC shall be chaired by an independent director.
(6) The meeting of NRC may be held as and when required.
D. Fit and Proper’ Criteria for Elected Directors
23. A Public Sector Bank (PSB) shall obtain necessary information, and a declaration
and undertaking, in the format enclosed at Annex I, from persons who file their
nominations for election to the post of Director under sub-section (c) of Section
19 of the SBI Act / clause (i) of sub-section (3) of Section 9 of the Banking
Companies (Acquisition and Transfer of Undertakings) Act, 1970 / 1980.
24. The Nomination and Remuneration Committee, constituted in terms of paragraph
22 of these Directions, shall meet after the last date prescribed for acceptance of
aforementioned nominations and examine the information provided in the signed
declarations to determine whether or not the person's candidature should be
accepted, based on the 'Fit and Proper' Criteria mentioned at paragraph 25 of
these Directions. The NRC’s discussions shall be properly recorded as formal
minutes of the meeting and the voting, if done, shall also be noted. The NRC shall
also make references, where considered necessary, to the appropriate authority
or persons, to ensure that the candidate conforms to the requirements indicated.
11

25. The NRC shall determine the 'fit and proper' status of the proposed candidates
based on the broad criteria mentioned hereunder:
(i) Age - The candidate's age shall be between 35 to 67 years as on the cut-
off date fixed for submission of nominations for election.
(ii) Educational qualification - The candidate shall at least be a graduate.
(iii) Experience and field of expertise - The candidate shall have special
knowledge or practical experience in respect of one or more of the
following areas, namely:
(a) Agriculture and Rural economy,
(b) Banking,
(c) Co-operation,
(d) Economics,
(e) Finance,
(f) Law,
(g) Small-scale industry,
(h) Information Technology,
(i) Payment & Settlement Systems,
(j) Human Resources,
(k) Risk Management,
(l) Business Management, and
(m) any other matter the special knowledge of, and practical
experience in, which would, in the opinion of RBI, be useful to the
bank.
(iv) Disqualifications: In addition to 'Disqualifications of Directors' as
prescribed in Section 22 of the SBI Act, 1955 or Clause 10 of Nationalised
Banks (Management and Miscellaneous Provisions) Scheme, 1970 / 80,
a candidate shall not
12

(a) be a member of the Board of any bank or RBI or a Financial
Institution (FI) or an Insurance Company or a NOFHC holding any
other bank;
(b) be a person connected with hire purchase, financing, money
lending, investment, leasing and other para banking activities.
However, investors of such entities shall not be disqualified for
appointment as directors if they do not enjoy any managerial
control in them;
(c) have served as director in the past on the Board of any bank, FI,
RBI, or insurance company under any category for six years,
whether continuously or intermittently;
(d) be engaging in the business of stock broking;
(e) be holding the position of a Member of Parliament or State
Legislature or Municipal Corporation or Municipality or other local
bodies;
(f) be acting as a partner of a Chartered Accountant firm which is
currently engaged as a Statutory Central Auditor of any other PSB;
(g) be acting as a partner of a Chartered Accountant firm which is
currently engaged as Statutory Branch Auditor or Concurrent
Auditor of the PSB in which nomination for election is filed.
Explanation: For the purposes of subparagraph 25(iv)(a) and
subparagraph 25(iv)(c) above, the expression ‘bank’ shall include a
banking company, a corresponding new bank, State Bank of India, a co-
operative bank and a regional rural bank.
For the purpose of subparagraph 25(iv)(c) above, the expression ‘bank’
shall also include the bank in which they have served as director in the
past.
For the purpose of subparagraph 25(iv)(e) above, the expression ‘other
local bodies’ means bodies such as Notified Area Council, City Council,
Panchayat, Gram Sabha, Zila Parishad, etc.
13

Tenure - An elected director shall hold office for three years and shall be
eligible for re-election, provided that no such director shall hold office for
a period exceeding six years, whether served continuously or
intermittently, as provided under clause 9(4) of Nationalised Banks
(Management and Miscellaneous Provisions) Scheme, 1970 / 80, and
Section 20(3) of the SBI Act.
(v) Professional restrictions – a candidate shall
(a) neither have any business connection (including legal services,
advisory services etc.) with the concerned PSB nor be engaged in
activities which might result in a conflict of business interests with
that PSB.
(b) not have any professional relationship with a bank or any NOFHC
holding any other bank.
Provided that a candidate having any such relationship with a bank
at the time of filing nomination for election shall be deemed to be
meeting the requirement under subparagraph 25(v)(b), upon
submission of a declaration to the NRC that such relationship with
the bank shall be severed if he is elected as a director, and upon
being elected, the candidate shall sever such relationship before
appointment as a director of the PSB.
(vi) Track record and integrity - The candidate shall not be under adverse
notice of any regulatory or supervisory authority / agency, or law
enforcement agency and shall not be a defaulter of any lending institution.
26. A PSB shall obtain from an elected director:
(i) a Deed of Covenant executed in the format enclosed at Annex II before
such person assumes office;
(ii) a declaration as on March 31 every year to the effect that the information
already provided by such person has not undergone any change;
Provided that, where there is change in the information provided earlier,
the PSB shall obtain from such director a fresh Annex I incorporating the
changes.
14

(iii) a full and proper disclosure of their interests and directorships in business
entities; and
(iv) in case the elected director is a CA (hereinafter referred as ‘CA director’),
the list of their or their firm’s clients.
27. A PSB shall also ensure compliance to Section 20 of the Banking Regulation Act,
1949, and additionally ensure:
(i) that an elected director distances themselves from and does not
participate in the PSB's credit or investment decisions involving entities in
which they are interested;
(ii) to put in place a system of safeguards for a CA director so that they do
not participate in PSB's credit or investment decisions involving their /
firm’s clients‘. The CA director shall be required to compulsorily dissociate
themselves from the entire process and sign a covenant to this effect; and
(iii) that no professional work is allotted to a person who was an elected
director of that PSB, for a period of two years after demitting office as such
director.
28. An elected director shall be deemed to be not fulfilling the requirements of sub-
section (2) of Section 19A of the SBI Act / sub-section (3AA) of Section 9 of the
Banking Companies (Acquisition and Transfer of Undertakings) Act, 1970 / 1980
and shall be liable for the consequences thereof, if they:
(i) fail to
(a) submit the Deed of Covenant or declaration; or
(b) make proper disclosures; or
(c) refrain from participating in credit / investment decisions, where
they are interested; or
(ii) make incomplete or incorrect disclosures, or
(iii) involve in such activities that render them ‘not fit and proper’ as per the
criteria mentioned in paragraph 25 of these Directions.
15

E. Appointment of Chief Risk Officer
29. A PSB shall lay down a Board-approved policy clearly defining the roles and
responsibilities of the Chief Risk Officer (CRO).
30. The CRO shall be a senior official in the hierarchy of a PSB and shall possess the
necessary and adequate professional qualification / experience in the area of risk
management.
31. The policy referred to at paragraph 29 shall include the necessary safeguards to
ensure the independence of the CRO. For this purpose, it shall be ensured that:
(i) the CRO shall have direct reporting lines to the MD&CEO / RMCB;
(ii) in case the CRO reports to the MD&CEO, the RMCB shall meet the CRO
without the presence of the MD&CEO, at least on a quarterly basis;
(iii) the CRO shall not have any reporting relationship with the business
verticals and shall not be given any business targets; and
(iv) there shall not be any ‘dual hatting’ i.e., the CRO shall not be given the
responsibility of Chief Executive Officer, Chief Operating Officer, Chief
Financial Officer, Chief of the internal audit function or any other function.
32. The CRO of a PSB shall be appointed for a fixed tenure with the approval of the
Board and may be transferred / removed from their post before completion of the
tenure only with the approval of the Board. Such premature transfer / removal
shall be reported to the Department of Supervision, RBI. In case of listed PSBs,
any change in incumbency of the CRO shall also be reported to the stock
exchanges.
33. A PSB shall have a system of separation of credit risk management function from
the credit sanction process as part of effective risk management. In case the CRO
of a PSB is associated with the credit sanction process, it shall be clearly
enunciated whether the CRO's role would be that of an adviser or a decision
maker. In this regard, it shall be ensured that:
(i) In a PSB that follows committee approach in credit sanction process for
high value proposals, if the CRO is one of the decision makers in the credit
sanction process, the CRO shall have voting power and all members who
are part of the credit sanction process, shall individually and severally be
16

liable for all the aspects, including risk perspective related to the credit
proposal. If the CRO is not a part of the credit sanction process, their role
shall be limited to that of an adviser.
(ii) In a PSB which does not follow committee approach for sanction of high
value credits, the CRO can only be an adviser in the sanction process and
shall not have any sanctioning power.
(iii) The CRO in their role as an adviser shall be an invitee to the credit
sanction / approval committee without any voting rights in the proceedings
of such a committee.
F. Appointment of Chief Vigilance Officer
34. While recommending to the Government or Central Vigilance Commission name/s
of officer/s for appointment as Chief Vigilance Officer (CVO), a PSB shall consider
that the CVO may be called upon to handle enquiries against even the senior-
most executives. Accordingly, a person in the rank of at least a General Manager
shall be the likely choice for the post of CVO.
35. The CVO shall not be allotted portfolio such Investment, Credit, Premises, Dead
Stock Stationery. However, the PSB may entrust the CVO with portfolios such as
Inspection and Audit, Accounts, Planning and Development, and Legal matters.
G. Appointment of Chief Financial Officer and Chief Technical Officer
36. As a PSB’s Chief Financial Officer (CFO) or Chief Technology Officer (CTO) in its
management structure plays a crucial role in strengthening and sustaining the risk
governance framework, the PSB shall stipulate, at a minimum, the following
qualifications and experience while inviting applications for these positions:
Role Criteria (Minimum qualification and experience)
Chief Qualification: qualified Chartered Accountant.
Financial
Experience: Fifteen years in overseeing financial operations,
Officer
preferably accounting and taxation matters, in banks / large
corporates / PSUs / FIs / financial services organizations, of
which ten years shall be in banks / FIs (of which five years shall
be at senior management level).
17

Role Criteria (Minimum qualification and experience)
Chief Qualification: Engineering Graduate or MCA or equivalent
Technology qualification from a recognized University / Institution.
Officer
Experience: Fifteen years of experience in relevant areas viz.
Banking-IT related areas / projects involving IT Policy and
Planning / Financial Networks and Applications / Financial
Information Systems / Cyber Security Technologies / Payment
Technologies, etc., of which five years shall be at senior
management level.
Provided that a PSB may prescribe additional qualifications and experience as
they deem fit, taking into account the risk profile, size and scale of operations.
H. Appointment of Company Secretary
37. A PSB shall appoint a qualified Company Secretary as the Secretary to the Board.
I. Appointment of Nominee Directors on assisted companies
38. In terms of relevant provisions of the applicable banking laws, a PSB's officials
may be nominated as nominee directors on units which:
(i) have been identified as sick but are assessed potentially viable;
(ii) are showing signs of incipient sickness, if the aggregate working
capital limit from the entire banking system is for ₹1 crore and above;
(iii) in the PSB's opinion, are mismanaged or have inefficient / recalcitrant
management.
Provided that,
(a) the appointment of nominee directors shall be in exceptional cases
and shall not gradually become obligatory for a PSB to place a
director on every sick unit to provide a directorship to every senior
officer;
(b) no officer of a PSB should be on more than one company’s board.
If there are not enough officers to cover all sick units then some
units may have to stay without nominee directors;
18

(c) There shall be no duplication of directors between banks / financial
institutions unless circumstances necessitate a clear majority on
the Board; and
(d) In the case of consortium arrangement, it would suffice if the 'Lead
Bank' alone nominates a director.
39. A PSB shall ensure that a person considered for nomination:
(i) has sufficient experience in credit administration and management,
knowledge of company law, and preferably technical expertise of
relevance to the unit concerned apart from having professional
qualifications; and
(ii) is an officer in Grade / Scale IV (Senior Management Grade) and above.
However, non-official nominees may be appointed by the Board of the
PSB as directors of assisted units in exceptional cases viz. where PSB is
required to appoint persons with specialised knowledge and expertise in
the field of management, project finance, accounts etc. provided such
persons are not available within the PSB.
40. In addition to safeguarding the financial interests of the PSB, and matters of public
policy such as financial performance of the company, payment of public dues,
payment of Government dues, intercorporate investment in the loans to or from
associate concerns etc., nominee directors shall be given clearly identified
responsibilities which may vary from unit to unit. Additionally, the role of a nominee
director shall include ensuring:
(i) proper implementation of the programme of rehabilitation of the sick unit;
(ii) efficient functioning of the assisted unit from the point of view of utilisation
of bank finance;
(iii) unit's adherence to credit discipline and compliance with the PSB's
requirement relating to information system etc.
(iv) prevention of diversion of funds and avoidance of extravagant and lavish
expenditure;
(v) reasonableness and interest of the PSB in matters relating to award of
contracts, purchase of machinery, raw materials, etc.; and
19

(vi) reporting of gist of deliberations in the Board Meetings of the assisted unit
in a format that shall be prescribed by the PSB.
41. Each PSB may set up a committee or cell to assess the performance of the
nominee directors. Further, while nominating a PSB's official on the Boards of
assisted units as nominee director, it shall be made clear to them that their
nomination should in no way affect discharging their day-to-day duties and
responsibilities in the PSB as an employee.
20

Chapter-III Private Sector Banks
A. Constitution of Board and Appointment of Directors
42. A PVB shall undertake a process of due diligence at the time of appointment / re-
appointment to determine the suitability of the person for appointment / continuing
to hold appointment as a director on the Board, based upon qualification,
expertise, track record, integrity and other 'fit and proper' criteria. For this purpose,
the PVB shall obtain necessary information and ‘Declaration & Undertaking’ from
the proposed / existing directors in the format enclosed at Annex I.
43. The aforementioned declarations shall be scrutinised by the Nomination and
Remuneration Committee, constituted in terms of paragraph 58 of these
Directions, which shall, based on the information provided in the signed
declaration, decide on the acceptance and may make references, where
considered necessary to the appropriate authority / persons, to ensure their
compliance with the requirements indicated.
Provided that,
(i) for assessing integrity and suitability features like criminal records,
financial position, civil actions initiated to pursue personal debts, refusal
of admission to or expulsion from professional bodies, sanctions applied
by regulators or similar bodies, previous questionable business practices
etc. shall be considered.
(ii) while due diligence of directors other than the members of the NRC shall
be carried out by the NRC, due diligence in respect of the members of the
NRC shall be carried out by the Board itself and the members of the NRC
(being interested parties) shall not be involved in this.
(iii) If a member of the NRC has either proposed or seconded the name of a
person for appointment as a director on the PVB’s Board, such a member
of the NRC shall not be a part of the exercise of conduct of due diligence
in respect of the person proposed to be appointed as a director. In all such
cases, the PVB’s Board shall nominate another director, as a temporary
member of the NRC, to conduct the exercise of due diligence in respect
of the person proposed to be appointed as a Director on the PVB’s Board.
21

44. Broad 'fit and proper’ norms for directors shall include formal qualification,
experience, track record, integrity etc. Additionally, a PVB shall adhere to the
following criteria to determine the 'fit and proper' status of the proposed
candidates for independent / Non-Executive Directors (NEDs):
(i) Age: The minimum age shall be 35 years. The upper age limit for NEDs,
including the Chair of the Board, shall be 75 years and after attaining the
age of 75 years no person can continue in these positions.
(ii) Educational qualification - The candidate shall at least be a graduate
(which can be relaxed while selecting directors for the categories of
farmers, depositors, artisans, etc.)
(iii) Experience and field of expertise – In accordance with Section 10A(2)(a)
of the Banking Regulation Act, not less than 51 per cent of the total
number of members of the Board of Directors of a banking company shall
consist of persons who shall have special knowledge or practical
experience in respect of one or more of the following areas, namely:
(a) Accountancy
(b) Agriculture and rural economy,
(c) Banking,
(d) Co-operation,
(e) Economics,
(f) Finance,
(g) Law,
(h) Small-scale industry,
(i) Information Technology,
(j) Payment & Settlement Systems,
(k) Human Resources,
(l) Risk Management,
(m) Business Management, and
22

(n) any other matter the special knowledge of, and practical
experience in, which would, in the opinion of RBI, be useful to the
bank.
Provided that out of the aforesaid number of directors, not less than two
shall be persons having special knowledge or practical experience in
respect of agriculture and rural economy, cooperation or small scale
industry.
(iv) Substantial interest and other restrictions - In accordance with Section
10A(2)(b) of the Banking Regulation Act, not less than 51 per cent of the
total number of members of the Board of Directors of a banking company
shall consist of persons, who shall not
(a) have substantial interest in, or be connected with, whether as
employee manager or managing agent in any company, not being
a company registered under Section 25 of the Companies Act
1956 or the corresponding provision under Companies Act, 2013,
or any firm which carries on trade, commerce or industry and
which in either case is not a small-scale industrial concern
(b) be proprietors of any trading, commercial or industrial concern, not
being a small-scale industrial concern
(v) A candidate shall not be a Member of Parliament / Member of Legislative
Assembly / Member of Legislative Council.
(vi) In case a director on the Board of an NBFI is to be considered for
appointment as director on the Board of a PVB, the following conditions
must be followed:
i. They shall not be the owner of the NBFI, [i.e., shareholdings
(single or jointly with relatives, associates, etc.) shall not
exceed 50 per cent],
ii. They shall not be related to the promoter of the NBFI,
iii. They shall not be a full-time employee in the NBFI.
iv. The concerned NBFI shall not be a borrower of the PVB.
23

(vii) As a matter of desirable practice, not more than one member of a family
or a close relative or an associate (partner, employee, director, etc.) may
be on the Board of a bank.
(viii) Tenure - The total tenure of an NED, continuously or otherwise, on the
Board of a PVB, shall not exceed eight years. After completing eight years
on the Board of a PVB the person may be considered for re-appointment
only after a minimum gap of three years. This will not preclude them from
being appointed as a director in another bank subject to meeting the
requirements.
45. A PVB shall obtain from a director:
(i) a Deed of Covenant executed in the format enclosed at Annex II as on
March 31 of every year;
(ii) a simple declaration as on March 31 every year to the effect that the
information already provided by such person has not undergone any
change;
Provided that, where there is change in the information provided earlier,
the PVB shall obtain requisite details from the director/s forthwith.
An annual certificate of the PVB having undertaken such continuing due
diligence shall be submitted to RBI.
B. MD&CEO / CEO, Part-time Chairman and Whole-time Directors
46. A PVB shall have a Part-time Chairman of the Board of Directors and a separate
Chief Executive Officer / Managing Director / Managing Director & Chief Executive
Officer (CEO / MD / MD&CEO) who shall be responsible for day-to-day
management of the PVB.
47. A PVB shall ensure the presence of at least two Whole-time Directors (WTDs),
including the MD&CEO / CEO, on its Board. The total number of WTDs shall be
decided by the Board by taking into account factors viz., the size of operations,
business complexity, and other relevant aspects.
48. Subject to the statutory approvals required from time to time, the post of the
MD&CEO / CEO or WTD of a PVB shall not be held by the same incumbent for
more than 15 years. Thereafter, the individual shall become eligible for re-
24

appointment as MD&CEO / CEO or WTD in the same PVB, if considered
necessary and desirable by the Board, after a minimum gap of three years,
subject to meeting other conditions. During this three-year cooling period, the
individual shall not be appointed or associated with the PVB or its group entities
in any capacity, either directly or indirectly.
49. No person shall continue as the MD&CEO / CEO or WTD of a PVB beyond the
age of 70 years. Within the overall limit of 70 years, as part of its internal policy,
an individual PVB's Board is free to prescribe a lower retirement age for the
WTDs, including the MD&CEO / CEO.
50. A MD&CEO / CEO or WTD of a PVB who is also a promoter or major shareholder,
shall not hold these posts for more than 12 years. However, in extraordinary
circumstances, at the sole discretion of RBI, such an MD&CEO / CEO or WTD
may be allowed to continue up to 15 years. While examining the matter of re-
appointment of such MD&CEO / CEO or WTDs within the 12 / 15 years period,
the level of progress and adherence to the milestones for dilution of promoters'
shareholding in the PVB shall also be factored in by RBI.
C. Role of the Board and Individual Directors
51. A PVB shall conduct its affairs in such ways that it remains wholly solvent,
adequately liquid and reasonably profitable. Additionally, it shall ensure that its
Memorandum and the Articles of Association are in conformity with extant
statutory and regulatory instructions.
52. The responsibilities of the Board of Directors of a Public Sector Bank (PSB) set
out in paragraphs 8 to 11 of these Directions shall, mutatis mutandis, apply to the
Board of a PVB. Therefore, the non-executive directors (NEDs) of a PVB shall
address themselves to policy formulations, performance appraisal and proper
arrangements for implementation of decisions of the Board and its Committees
leaving the operational aspects to the care of MD&CEO / CEO and other
executives. Some of the important areas on which the NEDs shall bestow
particular attention are compliance with monetary and credit policy of RBI /
Government, observance of Cash Reserve and Statutory Liquidity Ratio, efficient
management of funds and profitability, overall sectional deployment of funds,
performance budgeting, housekeeping particularly reconciliation of inter-office
25

accounts, customer service, vigilance, avoidance of frauds and development of a
good system of management information and monitoring.
53. A NED of a PVB shall not only take interest in the PVB’s work concerning their
own fields of specialisation / activity but also deliberate on all matters of general
policy affecting the PVB’s functioning including those concerning the staff. In other
words, every NED is expected to function in a manner most conducive to the
interests of the depositors, of the shareholders and of the nation as a whole.
54. In the context of what has been stated hereinbefore, a NED, in the discharge of
their duties, shall observe the following:
(i) a NED is not an employee of the PVB.
(ii) a NED as an individual, shall have no power to act on behalf of the PVB
nor can they give any direction to the employees of the PVB on behalf of
the management. A NED shall desist from sending any instructions to the
individual officers on any matters and such cases, if any, shall be routed
through the MD&CEO / CEO of the PVB. Further, if any information is
required for the purpose of taking a decision or reviewing the situation at
the Board level, it shall be sought from the management.
(iii) unless specifically authorised by a Board resolution, a NED shall exercise
power only as a member of a collective body, sitting along with others on
the Board of Directors. An individual director or a Committee of the Board
may be authorised by the Board to finally decide any matter or make
recommendations thereon to the Board.
(iv) a NED shall act with the amount of care and prudence which an ordinary
person is expected to take in their own business.
(v) a NED who is directly or indirectly concerned or interested in any contract,
loan, arrangement or proposal entered into or proposed to be entered by
or on behalf of the banking company shall, as soon as possible after the
relevant circumstances have come to their knowledge, disclose the nature
of their interest to the Board when any such contract, loan, arrangement
or proposal is discussed. Unless their presence is required by the other
directors for the purpose of eliciting information, no NED, so required to
26

be present, shall vote on any such contract, loan, arrangement or
proposal.
(vi) a NED shall not sponsor any individual proposal, nor shall they approach
directly the Branch Managers to sanction loans or other facilities to any
constituent. While sanction of individual loan application, determining
credit worthiness etc. shall be the job of the technical experts i.e. the bank
executives, in examining individual credit proposals, a NED shall carefully
analyse the state of health of the concerned units by observing the cash
flow position and appropriate action taken to ensure that the position of
the unit does not deteriorate and the funds get locked up.
(vii) a NED shall not sponsor individual cases of employees or officers
regarding their recruitment, transfers, promotions, postings and other
related matters. If they have any specific complaint against an individual
employee they shall be taken up and brought to the notice of the
MD&CEO / CEO and not any officer below them.
(viii) a PVB and its directors, officers, etc. shall observe, except as otherwise
required by law, the practices and usages customary among bankers, and
in particular, not divulge any information relating to or to the affairs of its
constituents except in circumstances in which it is, in accordance with law
or practices and usages customary among bankers, necessary or
appropriate for the banking company to divulge such information.
55. A NED on the Board of a PVB shall perform their role in such a manner as to
assist the Chairman and strengthen the management to bring about qualitative
and quantitative improvement in the working of the PVB. In this connection, the
NEDs shall ensure adherence to the following illustrative, but not exhaustive, list
of DO'S and DONT'S:
(i) DO'S: A NED shall
(a) attend the Board meetings regularly and effectively;
(b) study the Board papers thoroughly and use the good offices of the
Chief Executive for eliciting any information at the Board meeting;
27

(c) ask the management to furnish the Board papers and follow-up
reports on a definite time schedule;
(d) be involved thoroughly in the matter of formulation of general
policy and also ensure that performance of the PVB is monitored
adequately at Board levels;
(e) be familiar with the broad objectives of the PVB and the policy laid
down by the Government and RBI;
(f) offer constructive ideas for the better management of the PVB and
for making valuable contribution;
(g) work as a team and not sponsor or be prejudiced against individual
proposals. The management on its part shall furnish full facts and
complete papers in advance;
(h) offer as much of wisdom, guidance and knowledge as possible to
the management; and
(i) analyse the trends of economy, assist in the discharge of
management's responsibility to public and formulation of
measures to improve customer service and, be of constructive
assistance to the bank management.
(ii) DONT'S: a NED shall not
(a) send any instruction to any individual officer of the PVB or give
direction to individual officer in any matter;
(b) involve themselves in any matter relating to personnel
administration whether it is appointment, transfer, posting or
promotion or a redressal of individual grievances of any employee;
(c) interfere in the day-to-day functioning of the PVB;
(d) involve themselves in the routine or every day business and in the
management functions;
(e) approach or influence for sanction of any kind of facility from an
individual Branch Manager or any other official;
28

(f) sponsor any loan proposal, buildings and sites for bank's
premises, enlistment or empanelment of contractors, architects,
doctors, lawyers, etc or do anything which will interfere with and /
or be subversive of maintenance of discipline, good conduct and
integrity of the staff.
(g) participate in the Board discussion if a proposal in which they are
directly or indirectly interested comes up for discussion. They shall
disclose their interest well in advance to the MD&CEO / CEO;
(h) call for papers / files / notes recorded by various departments for
scrutiny etc. in respect of agenda items to be discussed in the
meetings. All information / clarification that they may require for
taking a decision shall be made available by the management.
(i) reveal any information relating to any constituent of the PVB to
anyone as they are under oath of secrecy and fidelity. To ensure
confidentiality of the PVB's agenda papers / notes, it is suggested
that by way of abundant precaution, the Board papers may be
returned to the PVB after the meeting;
(j) send for individual officers of the PVB or give directions to such
officers on any matter;
(k) encourage an individual employee or union to approach them in
any matter;
(l) display the logos or distinctive design of the PVB on their visiting
card/ letter head. They may indicate their directorship of the PVB
on their visiting card or letter heads.
56. MD&CEO / CEO / WTDs shall exercise such powers and discharge such duties
as may be delegated to them by the Board. They are charged with the
responsibility of efficient management of the bank on behalf of the Board. It is
through them that the programmes, policies and decisions approved by the Board
are made effective and again it is through them that the Board gets the responses
and reactions of those at various levels of the organisations to its deliberations. It
is they who interpret the policy decided upon by the Board to the employees of
29

the PVB and issue instructions in pursuance of the Board's policies and ensure
that these instructions are carried out.
D. Board Structure and Practices
57. The provisions pertaining to Board Structure and Practices for a PSB as specified
in paragraphs 12 to 19 of these Directions shall, mutatis mutandis, apply to a PVB.
E. Committees of the Board
58. The provisions relating to the constitution, composition, responsibilities, and
functioning of the ACB, RMCB and NRC of a PSB, as specified in paragraphs 20,
21 and 22 respectively of these Directions, shall apply mutatis mutandis to a PVB
except restriction contained in clause (2) of paragraph 22, pertaining to
Government-nominated directors, which is not applicable to PVBs.
F. Appointment of Chief Risk Officer
59. The provisions relating to Chief Risk Officer (CRO) of a PSB, as set out in
paragraphs 29 to 33 of these Directions, shall, mutatis mutandis, apply to a PVB.
G. Appointment of Chief Financial Officer and Chief Technical Officer
60. The provisions relating to the minimum qualifications and experience of a CFO
and CTO applicable to a PSB, as set out in paragraph 36 of these Directions,
shall, mutatis mutandis, apply to a PVB.
H. Remuneration of NEDs, WTDs, MD&CEO / CEO, Material Risk Takers, and
Control Function staff
61. A PVB may pay its NEDs remuneration in the form of:
(i) sitting fees and travelling / halting allowance i.e. expenses related to
attending meetings of the Board and its committees which shall be fixed
with the approval of the Board subject to compliance with the extant
statutory provisions. It is clarified that a PVB need not approach RBI for
approval under Section 35B of the Banking Regulation Act, 1949 in this
regard; and
(ii) fixed remuneration not exceeding ₹30 lakh per annum for an NED, other
than the Chair of the Board. For this purpose, the PVB shall set suitable
criteria, such that the fixed remuneration is commensurate with an
30

individual director's responsibilities and demands on time and are
considered sufficient to attract qualified competent individuals.
Explanation: The Board of a PVB may fix a lower amount within the ceiling
limit of ₹30 lakh per annum depending upon the size of the PVB,
experience of the NED and other relevant factors.
62. A PVB’s compensation policies and practices in respect of WTDs, MD&CEO /
CEO, Material Risk Takers (MRTs), and Control Function staff shall be in
accordance with the Guidelines set out in paragraph 63, and the Basel Committee
on Banking Supervision (BCBS) Methodologies detailed in paragraph 64 of these
Directions.
63. Guidelines: a PVB shall implement necessary policies or systems to ensure
adherence to the guidelines delineated below which are based on the FSB
Principles for Sound Compensation Practices and their Implementation
Standards, as well as current statutory and regulatory framework in India.
(1) Guideline 1: Compensation Policy
A PVB shall formulate and adopt a comprehensive compensation policy covering
all its employees and conduct annual review thereof. The policy shall cover all
aspects of the compensation structure such as fixed pay, perquisites,
performance bonus, guaranteed bonus (joining / sign-on bonus), severance
package, share-linked instruments e.g. Employee Stock Option Plan (ESOPs),
pension plan, gratuity, etc., taking into account these Guidelines.
(2) Guideline 2: NRC
The NRC of the Board of a PVB shall oversee the framing, review and
implementation of compensation policy of the PVB on behalf of the Board. The
NRC shall work in close coordination with RMCB, to achieve effective alignment
between compensation and risks. The NRC shall also ensure that the cost/income
ratio of the PVB supports the compensation package consistent with maintenance
of sound capital adequacy ratio.
(3) Guideline 3: For WTDs / MD&CEO / CEO / MRTs
A PVB shall ensure that for the WTDs / MD&CEO / CEO / MRTs:
(i) compensation is adjusted for all types of risks,
31

(ii) compensation outcomes are symmetric with risk outcomes,
(iii) compensation payouts are sensitive to the time horizon of the risks, and
(iv) the mix of cash, equity and other forms of compensation are consistent
with risk alignment.
A wide variety of measures of credit, market, liquidity and various other risks shall
be used by a PVB in implementation of risk adjustment. The risk adjustment
methods may preferably have both quantitative and judgmental elements. The
compensation shall also be in compliance with all statutory requirements.
The compensation structure for the WTDs / MD&CEO / CEO / MRTs of a PVB
shall be as under:
(i) Fixed Pay and Perquisites: A PVB shall ensure that the fixed portion of
compensation is reasonable, taking into account all relevant factors
including adherence to statutory requirements and industry practice. All
the fixed items of compensation, including the perquisites, shall be treated
as part of fixed pay. It may be noted that all perquisites that are
reimbursable shall also be included in the fixed pay so long as there are
monetary ceilings on these reimbursements. Contributions towards
superannuation / retiral benefits shall be treated as part of fixed pay.
(ii) Variable Pay
(a) Composition of Variable Pay: The variable pay may be in the form
of share-linked instruments [including Cash-linked Stock
Appreciation Rights (CSARs)], or a mix of cash and share-linked
instruments. There shall be proper balance between the cash and
share-linked components in the variable pay. Only in cases where
the compensation by way of share-linked instruments is not
permitted by law / regulations, the entire variable pay may be in
cash.
(b) Limit on Variable Pay: It shall be ensured that there is a proper
balance between fixed pay and variable pay. In this respect, the
PVB shall ensure that:
32

i. In accordance with FSB Implementation Standards, read with
sub-point (iv) of this subparagraph and BCBS stipulation
furnished in paragraph 64(i), a substantial proportion of
compensation i.e., at least 50 per cent, shall be variable and
paid on the basis of individual, business-unit and firm-wide
measures that adequately measure performance, except in
cases mentioned in sub-point (iii) of this subparagraph and
guideline (4). At higher levels of responsibility, the proportion of
variable pay shall be higher. The total variable pay shall be
limited to a maximum of 300 per cent of the fixed pay (for the
relative performance measurement period).
ii. In case variable pay is up to 200 per cent of the fixed pay, a
minimum of 50 per cent of the variable pay; and in case variable
pay is above 200 per cent, a minimum of 67 per cent of the
variable pay shall be via non-cash instruments.
iii. In the event that an executive is barred by statute or regulation
from grant of share-linked instruments, their variable pay shall
be capped at 150 per cent of the fixed pay, but shall not be less
than 50 per cent of the fixed pay.
iv. The deterioration in the financial performance of the PVB shall
generally lead to a contraction in the total amount of variable
compensation, which may even be reduced to zero.
(c) Deferral of Variable Pay:
i. For senior executives, including WTDs, and other employees
who are MRTs (see guideline (6) below), in adherence to FSB
Implementation Standards, deferral arrangements shall
invariably exist for the variable pay, regardless of the quantum
of pay. For such executives of a PVB, a minimum of 60 per cent
of the total variable pay shall be under deferral arrangements.
Further, if cash component is part of variable pay, at least 50
per cent of the cash bonus shall also be deferred.
33

ii. However, in cases where the cash component of variable pay
is under ₹25 lakh, deferral requirements may not be necessary.
(d) Period of Deferral Arrangement: The deferral period shall be a
minimum of three years. This shall be applicable to both the cash
and non-cash components of the variable pay.
(e) Vesting: Deferred remuneration shall either vest fully at the end of
the deferral period or be spread out over the course of the deferral
period. The first such vesting shall not be before one year from the
commencement of the deferral period. The vesting shall be no
faster than pro rata arrived on a cumulative basis. Additionally,
vesting shall not take place more frequently than on a yearly basis
to ensure a proper assessment of risks before the application of
ex post adjustments.
Explanation: ‘No faster than pro rata basis’ means vesting shall
not be frontloaded. In other words, if the deferral arrangement is
three years, not more than 33.33 per cent of the total granted
ESOPs should vest at the end of first year. Further, not more than
66.67 per cent of total granted ESOPs should vest at the end of
second year.
(f) Share-linked Instruments: Such instruments shall be included as
a component of variable pay. Norms for grant of share-linked
instruments shall be framed by a PVB in conformity with relevant
statutory provisions and should form part of the PVB’s
compensation policy. The details of share-linked instruments
granted shall also be disclosed in terms of the disclosure
requirements stipulated in the Reserve Bank of India (Commercial
Banks: Financial Statements - Presentation and Disclosures)
Directions, 2025. Share-linked instruments shall be fair valued on
the date of grant by the PVB using Black-Scholes model. The fair
value thus arrived at shall be recognised as an expense beginning
with the accounting period for which approval has been granted.
(g) Malus / Clawback
34

i. The deferred compensation shall be subject to malus /
clawback arrangements in the event of subdued or negative
financial performance of the PVB and / or the relevant line of
business in any year.
ii. A PVB shall put in place appropriate modalities to incorporate
malus / clawback mechanism in respect of variable pay, taking
into account Supplementary Guidance issued by FSB in March
2018 on use of compensation tools to address misconduct risk,
and all relevant statutory and regulatory stipulations, as
applicable. A PVB shall identify a representative set of
situations in their Compensation Policies, which require it to
invoke the malus and clawback clauses that may be applicable
on entire variable pay. When setting criteria for the application
of malus and clawback, a PVB shall also specify a period during
which malus and / or clawback can be applied, covering at least
deferral and retention periods.
iii. Wherever the assessed divergence in PVB’s provisioning for
Non-Performing Assets (NPAs) or asset classification exceeds
the prescribed threshold for public disclosure in terms of
Reserve Bank of India (Commercial Banks: Financial
Statements - Presentation and Disclosures) Directions, 2025,
a PVB shall not pay the unvested portion of the variable
compensation for the assessment year under ‘malus’ clause.
Further, in such situations, no proposal for increase in variable
pay (for the assessment year) shall be entertained. In case the
PVB’s post assessment Gross NPAs are less than 2.0 per cent,
these restrictions shall apply only if criteria for public disclosure
are triggered either on account of divergence in provisioning or
both provisioning and asset classification.
(h) Guaranteed Bonus: Guaranteed bonus is not consistent with
sound risk management or the ‘pay for performance’ principles
and shall not be part of the compensation plan. Therefore,
guaranteed bonus shall only occur in the context of hiring new staff
35

as joining / sign-on bonus and be limited to the first year. Further,
joining / sign-on bonus shall be in the form of share-linked
instruments only, since upfront payments in cash would create
perverse incentives. Such bonus will neither be considered part of
fixed pay nor part of variable pay. Further, a PVB shall not grant
severance pay other than accrued benefits (gratuity, pension, etc.)
except in cases where it is mandatory under any statute.
(i) Hedging: A PVB shall not permit employees to insure or hedge
their compensation structure to offset the risk alignment effects
embedded in their compensation arrangement. To enforce the
same, a PVB shall establish appropriate compliance
arrangements.
(4) Guideline 4: For risk control and compliance staff
Members of staff engaged in financial and risk control, including internal audit,
shall be compensated in a manner that is independent of the business areas they
oversee and commensurate with their key role in the PVB. Effective independence
and appropriate authority of such staff are necessary to preserve the integrity of
financial and risk management’s influence on incentive compensation. Back office
and employees in the risk control function play a key role in ensuring the integrity
of risk measures. If their own compensation is significantly affected by short-term
measures, their independence may be compromised. If their compensation is too
low, the quality of such employees may be insufficient for their tasks and their
authority may be undermined. The mix of fixed and variable compensation for
control function personnel shall be weighted in favour of fixed compensation.
Therefore, the requirement of minimum 50 per cent of total compensation to be
paid in the form of variable pay shall not be applicable for this category of staff.
However, a reasonable proportion of compensation shall be in the form of variable
pay, so that exercising the options of malus and / or clawback, when warranted,
is not rendered infructuous. Subject to the above, while devising compensation
structure for such staff, a PVB shall adopt principles similar to principles
enunciated for WTDs / MD&CEO / CEO, as appropriate.
(5) Guideline 5: For other categories of staff
36

While these Guidelines do not apply to PVB’s staff other than WTDs / MD&CEO /
CEO / MRTs and Control Function Staff, a PVB may adopt similar principles, with
suitable modifications, as appropriate for them as well.
(6) Guideline 6: Identification of MRTs of the PVB
A PVB shall identify its MRTs whose actions have a material impact on the risk
exposure of the PVB, and who satisfy the qualitative and any one of the
quantitative criteria given below:
(i) Standard Qualitative criteria: Relate to the role and decision-making
power of staff members (e.g., senior manager, member of management
body) having jointly or individually, the authority to commit significantly to
risk exposures, etc.
(ii) Standard Quantitative Criteria:
(a) Their total remuneration exceeds a certain threshold; the
determination of which may be done prudently by the PVB, or
(b) They are included among the 0.3 per cent of staff with the highest
remuneration in the PVB, or
(c) Their remuneration is equal to or greater than the lowest total
remuneration of senior management and other risk-takers.
A PVB shall refer to the BCBS report titled ‘Range of Methodologies for Risk and
Performance Alignment of Remuneration’ published in May 2011 to enhance its
understanding of risk-adjusted remuneration.
(7) Guideline 7: Disclosure
A PVB shall make disclosure on remuneration of WTDs / MD&CEO / CEO / MRTs
on an annual basis at the minimum, in their Annual Financial Statements as
prescribed in Reserve Bank of India (Commercial Banks: Financial Statements –
Presentation and Disclosures) Directions, 2025, as amended from time to time.
(8) The aforementioned guidelines cover the principles of effective governance of
compensation (Guidelines 1 and 2) and effective alignment of compensation with
prudent risk taking (Guidelines 3 to 7). With respect to the principle of regulatory
and supervisory approval / oversight, it is reiterated that:
37

(i) in terms of the Section 10(1)(b)(iii) of the B.R. Act, 1949, no banking
company shall employ or continue the employment of any person whose
remuneration is, in the opinion of RBI, excessive;
(ii) a PVB operating in India is required to obtain regulatory approval for grant
of remuneration to WTDs / MD&CEO / CEO in terms of Section 35B of
the B.R. Act, 1949; and
(iii) a PVB’s compensation policy shall also be subject to supervisory
oversight including review under Basel framework. Deficiencies observed
in this regard shall have the effect of increasing the risk profile of the PVB
with attendant consequences, including a requirement of additional
capital if the deficiencies are very significant.
64. BCBS Methodologies for risk and performance alignment of remuneration:
The BCBS in consultation with the FSB had published a report in May 2011 titled
‘Range of Methodologies for Risk and Performance Alignment of Remuneration’.
The main objectives of the report are (a) to present certain remuneration practices
and methodologies that support sound incentives; and (b) the elements
influencing the effectiveness of risk alignment that should be considered by banks
when developing their methodologies as well as by supervisors, when reviewing
and assessing banks’ practices; according to which:
(i) A PVB shall ensure that the variable part of remuneration is truly and
effectively variable and may even be reduced to zero, in line with the
symmetry principle defined by the FSB. A PVB shall be able to
demonstrate to supervisors that the methodologies used to adjust variable
remuneration to risk and performance are appropriate to its specific
circumstances;
(ii) The methodologies adopted by a PVB for aligning remuneration with risk
and performance shall be consistent with its general risk management
and corporate governance framework.
(iii) Performance measures and their relation to remuneration packages shall
be clearly defined at the beginning of the performance measurement
period to ensure that the employees of a PVB perceive the incentive
mechanism. The usual annual determination of bonus shall be based on
38

rules, processes and objectives known in advance, although some degree
of discretion may be retained.
(iv) A PVB shall use a combination of financial and non-financial measures to
assess employee performance and adapt the measurement to each
employee’s specific situation. Qualitative factors viz., knowledge, skills
and abilities may be considered, particularly where these serve to
reinforce the PVB’s risk management goals.
(v) The nature and extent to which risk adjustments are needed in
remuneration shall depend on the extent to which performance measures
capture risks. In all cases, risk adjustment shall be made, given that
remuneration is often awarded before the final outcome of an activity is
known. A PVB shall estimate risks ex ante and monitor outcomes ex post,
with both influencing the final payouts.
(vi) Risk adjustments shall take into account the nature of the risks involved
and the time horizons over which they may emerge. The impact of
remuneration adjustments shall be linked to actions taken by employees
and / or business units, and their impact on the level of risk taken on by
the PVB.
(vii) A PVB shall carefully consider the nature of the award process, which
links the variable remuneration of each individual employee with bonus
pools and the total amount of variable remuneration at a PVB’s level, as
it directly influences how and when performance and risk adjustment are
or may be used.
I. Regulatory approvals and Reporting
65. A PVB shall seek prior approval of RBI for the following purposes by submitting
corresponding information and documents through the Pravaah Portal
(https://pravaah.rbi.org.in):
(i) Amendment of a provision relating to the appointment or re-appointment
or termination of appointment or remuneration of MD&CEO / CEO or any
other Director - Form ‘A’ in Annex III.
39

(ii) Appointment or re-appointment of Chairman or WTD or MD&CEO / CEO
(by whatever name called) - Form ‘B’ in Annex IV along with ‘Declaration
and Undertaking’ from candidate(s), and the remarks of NRC of having
satisfied itself that the information is true and complete.
Provided that,
(a) A proposal for appointment of a new MD&CEO / CEO shall
invariably contain a panel of at least two names in the order of
preference and shall be submitted to RBI at least four months
before the expiry of the term of office of the present incumbent.
(b) A proposal for re-appointment of MD&CEO / CEO shall be
submitted to RBI at least six months before the expiry of the term
of office of the incumbent.
66. A PVB shall seek regulatory approval for grant of remuneration (i.e.
compensation) to WTDs / MD&CEO / CEO in terms of Section 35B of the Banking
Regulation Act, 1949. For this purpose, a PVB shall submit application through
the Pravaah Portal (https://pravaah.rbi.org.in) in the format prescribed in Annex
V.
Provided that the approval process shall involve, inter alia, an assessment of
whether the PVB’s compensation policies and practices are in accordance with
the Guidelines and the BCBS Methodologies set out or detailed in paragraph 63
and paragraph 64 respectively of these Directions.
67. A PVB shall obtain regulatory approval regarding remuneration to Part-time
Chairman in terms of Section 10B(1A)(i) and 35B of the Banking Regulation Act,
1949 through the Pravaah Portal (https://pravaah.rbi.org.in).
68. Any change in the Board composition shall be reported as and when they take
place to the Department of Regulation, Central Office, Reserve Bank of India in
the format given at Annex VI.
69. A bank shall obtain regulatory approval regarding Additional Roles or
Responsibilities of MD&CEO / CEO in terms of Section 10B(8) of the Banking
Regulation Act, 1949, through the Pravaah Portal (https://pravaah.rbi.org.in).
40

70. A bank proposing to amend its Articles of Association shall obtain prior regulatory
approval for such amendment in terms of Section 35B of the Banking Regulation
Act, 1949 through the Pravaah Portal (https://pravaah.rbi.org.in) before circulating
the draft amendments to its shareholders or convening a meeting of the
shareholders in this regard.
41

Chapter-IV Foreign Banks
71. All provisions that are applicable to a Private Sector Bank (PVB), as set out in
Chapter III of these Directions, shall be applicable to a Foreign Bank (FB)
operating in India through a Wholly Owned Subsidiary (WOS) with the following
amendments:
(i) The provisions relating to ‘fit and proper’ criteria specified in paragraph 44
of these Directions shall apply with the following proviso:
A WOS of an FB shall also adhere to the following criteria:
(a) not less than two-third of the directors shall be Non-Executive
Directors (NEDs);
(b) not less than one-third of the directors shall be independent of the
management of the subsidiary in India, its parent and any
subsidiary or other associate of the foreign bank parent;
(c) not less than 50 per cent directors shall be Indian nationals / NRIs
/ PIOs subject to the condition that one-third of the directors are
Indian nationals resident in India;
(ii) The provisions relating to appointment of CEO / MD specified in
paragraphs 48 and 49 of these Directions shall apply with the following
proviso:
A WOS of an FB shall also ensure that the CEO is appointed on full time
basis and is resident in India.
72. All provisions that are applicable to a PVB, as set out in Chapter III of these
Directions, shall be applicable to a FB operating in India through branch/es,
except as under:
(i) Provisions pertaining to Constitution of Board and Appointment of
Directors (Section A), MD&CEO / CEO, Part-time Chairman and Whole-
time Directors (Section B), Role of the Board and Individual Directors
(Section C), Board Structure and Practices (Section D), Committees of
the Board (Section E) shall not apply;
42

The bank shall also refer to Circular No.
DBS.ARS.BC.No.07/08.91.020/2010-11 dated May 11, 2011 on
‘Regulatory and Audit Compliance’ regarding role of MD&CEO / CEO and
Circular No. DBS.ARS.BC.No.03/08.91.020/2011-12 dated October 4,
2011 on ‘Calendar of Reviews for Board / Local Management Committee
of Foreign Banks’.
(ii) Provisions pertaining to remuneration of NEDs set out in paragraph 61
shall not apply while those pertaining to MD&CEO / CEO as specified in
paragraph 62 shall apply with the following proviso:
In case of an FB operating in India in branch mode, it shall submit a
declaration to RBI annually from its Head Office to the effect that its
compensation structure in India, including that of CEO’s, is in conformity
with the FSB Principles and Standards and the same shall be taken into
account by RBI while approving CEO’s compensation.
Provided that, if the aforesaid FB has not adopted the FSB principles in
its home country, then it shall implement the compensation Guidelines as
prescribed in paragraph 62 of these Directions, to the extent applicable
to them.
(iii) Provisions relating to regulatory approvals as set out in paragraphs 65(i),
67, 68 and 70 shall not apply.
43

Chapter-V Repeal and other provisions
A. Repeal and saving
73. With the issue of these Directions, the existing Directions, instructions, and
guidelines relating to governance as applicable to commercial banks stand
repealed, as communicated vide circular DOR.RRC.REC.302/33-01-010/2025-26
dated November 28, 2025. The Directions, instructions, and guidelines repealed
prior to the issuance of these Directions shall continue to remain repealed.
74. Notwithstanding such repeal, any action taken or purported to have been taken,
or initiated under the repealed Directions, instructions, or guidelines shall continue
to be governed by the provisions thereof. All approvals or acknowledgments
granted under these repealed lists shall be deemed as governed by these
Directions. Further, the repeal of these directions, instructions, or guidelines shall
not in any way prejudicially affect:
(i) any right, obligation or liability acquired, accrued, or incurred thereunder;
(ii) any, penalty, forfeiture, or punishment incurred in respect of any contravention
committed thereunder;
(iii) any investigation, legal proceeding, or remedy in respect of any such right,
privilege, obligation, liability, penalty, forfeiture, or punishment as aforesaid; and
any such investigation, legal proceedings or remedy may be instituted, continued,
or enforced and any such penalty, forfeiture or punishment may be imposed as if
those directions, instructions, or guidelines had not been repealed.
B. Application of other laws not barred
75. The provisions of these Directions shall be in addition to, and not in derogation of
the provisions of any other laws, rules, regulations, or directions, for the time being
in force.
44

C. Interpretations
76. For the purpose of giving effect to the provisions of these Directions or in order to
remove any difficulties in the application or interpretation of the provisions of these
Directions, the RBI may, if it considers necessary, issue necessary clarifications
in respect of any matter covered herein and the interpretation of any provision of
these Directions given by the RBI shall be final and binding.
(Manoranjan Padhy)
Chief General Manager
45

Annex I
Name of Bank: ______________________________
‘Declaration and Undertaking' by a proposed Director / MD&CEO / CEO
(with appropriate enclosures)
Sr Particulars Information Disclosed
No
I. Personal Details
1. Name in full First Middle Last
Name Name Name
2. Father’s name
3. Gender (M/F/others)
4. Present address
5. E-mail address & alternate e-mail
address: Telephone Number with
STD code: Mobile Number:
6. Nationality
- - / - - / - - - - Age: - - years - -
7. Date of Birth (dd/mm/yyyy) and
months
Age
8. Educational qualifications
9. Director Identification Number
(DIN)
10. Aadhaar Number (Optional)
Date of Amount of tax paid
11. a) Permanent Account Number
filing (INR)
(PAN)
b) Charge where the proposed
director is assessed to tax
(Income Tax jurisdiction)/name
and address of Income Tax
Circle/Ward
c) Details of filing of return(s) and
payment of taxes for past 3
years
12. Permanent address
13. Details in the form of a brief write up
on the relevant knowledge or
46

Sr Particulars Information Disclosed
No
experience in respect of one or
more of the matters namely
accountancy, agriculture and rural
economy, banking, co-operation,
economics, finance, law, small
scale industry, information
technology, payment and
settlement systems, human
resources, risk management,
business management or any other
matter the special knowledge of
and practical experience of which
would in the opinion of the Reserve
Bank be useful to the Banking
Company.
14. Present occupation (designation,
name of the organisation and brief
write-up on experience)
15. Previous occupation covering
minimum of past ten years, with
complete address of the
organisation(s) worked in, date of
joining, date of relieving (including
reasons), designation, etc.
16. In case a Chartered Accountant,
indicate the following:
a) Membership Number of Institute
of Chartered Accountants of
India (ICAI):
b) Date of registration with the
ICAI:
c) Name and Address of the
registered firm/s:
d) Details of the Audit(s) presently
undertaken by the firm(s) or by
you:
17. Name of the banker(s) with Branch
and Account Numbers Bank Branch Type A/c
(savings/current/loan accounts) Name of A/c Number
47

Sr Particulars Information Disclosed
No
where you are a primary account
holder:
18. Details of shareholding, if held in
any entity, either in physical or
dematerialized form, by you,
spouse, and your minor child.
(attach demat/shareholding
certificate)
19. Any other information relevant to
directorship of the bank:
II. Relevant Relationships of proposed director
20. List of relatives, [Refer Section
2(77) of the Companies Act, 2013
and Rule 4 of the Companies
(Specification of Definition) Rules,
2014] if any, who are connected
with any bank:
21. List of entities in which:
a) interested [Refer Section 184 of
the Companies Act, 2013]:
b) beneficial ownership [Refer
Section 89 of Companies Act,
2013 as also the applicable
Significant Beneficial Ownership
Rules of MCA]:
c) Trustee (also mention any other
relationship with reference to a
trust):
Name of the company / firm
22. List of entities, existing and
proposed, in which holding Country of incorporation
substantial interest within the Number of shares
meaning of Section 5(ne)1 of the Face Value of each share
Banking Regulation Act, 1949. Total face value of share
1 ‘substantial interest’ (i) in relation to a company, means the holding of a beneficial interest by an individual or his
spouse or minor child, whether singly or taken together, in the shares thereof, the amount paid up on which exceeds
two crore rupees or such other amount as may be notified in the Official Gazette by the Central Government or ten
per cent of the paid-up capital of the company, whichever is less; (ii) in relation to a firm, means the beneficial interest
held therein by an individual or his spouse or minor child, whether singly or taken together, which represents more
than ten per cent of the total capital subscribed by all the partners of the said firm.
48

Sr Particulars Information Disclosed
No
holding
Shareholding as % of total
Paid up Capital
Beneficial interest (in value
as well as % terms)
Whether the entity is a
Section 8 Company under
Companies Act, 2013
23. Details of holdings in entities
incorporated abroad and having a
place of business in India.
24. Name of Bank/NBFC/any other
company in which currently or in
the past a member of the Board/
Advisor etc. (giving details of period
during which such office is being/
was held).
25. If connected with any entity
undertaking hire purchase,
financing, investment, leasing and
other para banking activities
(nature of association to be
mentioned), details thereof.
26. If a stock broker or connected with
any entity engaged in share broking
activities, details thereof.
27. Details of fund and non-fund-based
facilities, if any, presently availed in
person and/or by entities listed in
(21) to (26) above.
28. Cases, if any, where as an
individual or the entities listed at
(21) to (26) above have defaulted
or declared as willful defaulter in
the past in respect of credit facilities
obtained from a bank/NBFC/any
other lending institution.
49

Sr Particulars Information Disclosed
No
III. Records of professional achievements
29. Professional achievements
relevant for the directorship.
IV. Proceedings, if any, against the proposed director
30. a) As a member of a professional
association/body, details of
disciplinary action, if any,
pending or commenced or
resulting in conviction in the past
or whether been banned from
entry at any profession/
occupation at any time, details
thereof.
b) If subject of any written
complaint or accusation
regarding individual
professional conduct or
activities, details thereof.
31. Details of prosecution, if any,
pending or commenced or resulting
in conviction of self or the entities
listed at (21) to (26) above for
violation of economic laws and
regulations.
32. Details of criminal prosecution, if
any, pending or commenced or
resulting in conviction.
33. If indulged in any breach of
AML/CFT guidelines, details
thereof.
34. If attracting any of the
disqualifications envisaged under
Section 164 of the Companies Act,
2013, details thereof.
35. If adjudicated insolvent or has
suspended payment or has
50

Sr Particulars Information Disclosed
No
compounded with creditors, details
thereof.
36. If found to be of unsound mind and
stands so declared by a competent
Court, details thereof.
37. a) If convicted by a Criminal Court
of an offence which involves
moral turpitude or otherwise,
details thereof.
b) If convicted by any Court of law,
details thereof?
38. If holding any office of profit under
any nationalised bank or State
Bank of India, except for holding
the post of a whole-time director,
details thereof.
39. If as an individual or any of the
entities at (21) to (26) above have
been subject to any
investigation/vigilance/ matters of
enquiry from any of the previous
employers or government
departments or agency, details
thereof.
40. If found guilty of violation of rules/
regulations/ legislative
requirements by customs/ excise/
income tax/ foreign exchange/
other revenue authorities, details
thereof.
41. If reprimanded, censured,
restricted, suspended, barred,
enjoined, or otherwise sanctioned
by any regulator such as SEBI,
IRDAI, PFRDA etc., professional
organisation, government agency,
or court because of professional
51

Sr Particulars Information Disclosed
No
conduct or activities, details
thereof.
(Though it shall not be necessary
for a candidate to mention in the
column about orders and findings
which have been later on reversed/
set aside in toto, it would be
necessary to make a mention of the
same, in case the reversal/ setting
aside is on technical reasons like
limitation or lack of jurisdiction, and
not on merit. If the order is
temporarily stayed and the
appellate/ court proceedings are
pending, the same also should be
mentioned).
V. General Information
42. If a professional like Chartered
Accountant, Advocate etc. and
presently undertaking/ undertaken
any professional work in any bank,
provide details thereof including the
name of the bank and period of
association with the bank.
43. If a sitting MP/MLA/MLC or holding
political position in Municipal
Corporation or Municipality or other
local bodies, provide details
thereof.
VI. In the interest of disclosure and
transparency, should there be any other
information relevant for assessing ‘fit
and proper’, provide details thereof.
Undertaking
I confirm that the above information is to the best of my knowledge and belief, true
and complete. I undertake to keep the bank fully informed, as soon as possible, of
all events which take place after my appointment which are relevant to the
information provided above.
52

Sr Particulars Information Disclosed
No
I also undertake to execute a ‘Deed of Covenant’ as required to be executed with
the bank.
Place : Signature of proposed Director/
MD&CEO / CEO
Date :
Remarks of Nomination and
Remuneration Committee (NRC)
of having satisfied itself that the
above information is true and
complete.
Place : Signature of the Chair of the NRC
Name of the Chair of the NRC
Date :
53

Annex II
FORM OF DEED OF COVENANTS WITH A DIRECTOR OF A BANK
THIS DEED OF COVENANTS is made this ______ day of ________Two thousand
_____ BETWEEN _______________, having its registered office at ____________
(hereinafter called the ‘Bank’) of the one part and Mr/Ms_____________ of
______________ (hereinafter called the ‘Director’) of the other part.
WHEREAS
A. The director has been appointed as a director on the Board of Directors of the Bank
(hereinafter called ‘the Board’) and is required as a term of his/her appointment to
enter into a Deed of Covenants with the Bank.
B. The director has agreed to enter into this Deed of Covenants, which has been
approved by the Board, pursuant to his said terms of appointment.
NOW IT IS HEREBY AGREED AND THIS DEED OF COVENANTS WITNESSETH AS
FOLLOWS:
1. The director acknowledges that his/her appointment as director on the Board of the
Bank is subject to applicable laws and regulations including the Memorandum and
Articles of Association of the Bank and the provisions of this Deed of Covenants.
2. The director covenants with the Bank that:
(i) The director shall disclose to the Board the nature of his/her interest, direct or
indirect, if he/she has any interest in or is concerned with a contract or
arrangement or any proposed contract or arrangement entered into or to be
entered into between the Bank and any other person, immediately upon
becoming aware of the same or at meeting of the Board at which the question
of entering into such contract or arrangement is taken into consideration or if
the director was not at the date of that meeting concerned or interested in
such proposed contract or arrangement, then at the first meeting of the Board
held after he/she becomes so concerned or interested and in case of any
other contract or arrangement, the required disclosure shall be made at the
first meeting of the Board held after the director becomes concerned or
interested in the contract or arrangement.
54

(ii) The director shall disclose by general notice to the Board his/her other
directorships, his/her memberships of bodies corporate, his/her interest in
other entities and his/her interest as a partner or proprietor of firms and shall
keep the Board apprised of all changes therein.
(iii) The director shall provide to the Bank a list of his/her relatives to the extent
the director is aware directorships and interests of such relatives in other
bodies corporate, firms and other entities.
(iv) The director shall in carrying on his/her duties as director of the Bank:
(a) use such degree of skill as may be reasonable to expect from a
person with his/her knowledge or experience;
(b) in the performance of his/her duties take such care as he/she might
be reasonably expected to take on his/her own behalf and exercise
any power vested in him/her in good faith and in the interests of the
Bank;
(c) shall keep himself/herself informed about the business, activities and
financial status of the Bank to the extent disclosed to him/her;
(d) attend meetings of the Board and Committees thereof (collectively
for the sake of brevity hereinafter referred to as ‘Board’) with fair
regularity and conscientiously fulfil his/her obligations as director of
the Bank;
(e) shall not seek to influence any decision of the Board for any
consideration other than in the interests of the Bank;
(f) shall bring independent judgement to bear on all matters affecting the
Bank brought before the Board including but not limited to statutory
compliances, performance reviews, compliances with internal control
systems and procedures, key executive appointments and standards
of conduct;
(g) shall in exercise of his/her judgement in matters brought before the
Board or entrusted to him/her by the Board be free from any business
or other relationship which could materially interfere with the exercise
of his/her independent judgement; and
(h) shall express his/her views and opinions at Board meetings without
any fear or favour and without any influence on exercise of his/her
independent judgement;
55

(v) The director shall have:
(a) fiduciary duty to act in good faith and in the interests of the Bank and
not for any collateral purpose;
(b) duty to act only within the powers as laid down by the Bank’s
Memorandum and Articles of Association and by applicable laws and
regulations; and
(c) duty to acquire proper understanding of the business of the Bank.
(vi) The director shall:
(a) not evade responsibility in regard to matters entrusted to him/her by
the Board;
(b) not interfere in the performance of their duties by the whole-time
directors and other officers of the Bank and wherever the director has
reasons to believe otherwise, he/she shall forthwith disclose his/her
concerns to the Board; and
(c) not make improper use of information disclosed to him/her as a
member of the Board for his/her or someone else’s advantage or
benefit and shall use the information disclosed to him/her by the Bank
in his/her capacity as director of the Bank only for the purposes of
performance of his/her duties as a director and not for any other
purpose.
3. The Bank covenants with the director that:
(i) the Bank shall apprise the director about:
(a) Board procedures including identification of legal and other duties of
Director and required compliances with statutory obligations;
(b) control systems and procedures;
(c) voting rights at Board meetings including matters in which Director
should not participate because of his/her interest, direct or indirect
therein;
(d) qualification requirements and provide copies of Memorandum and
Articles of Association;
(e) corporate policies and procedures;
56

(f) insider dealing restrictions;
(g) constitution of, delegation of authority to and terms of reference of
various committees constituted by the Board;
(h) appointments of Senior Executives and their authority;
(i) remuneration policy,
(j) deliberations of committees of the Board, and
(k) communicate any changes in policies, procedures, control systems,
applicable regulations including Memorandum and Articles of
Association of the Bank, delegation of authority, Senior Executives,
etc. and appoint the compliance officer who shall be responsible for
all statutory and legal compliance.
(ii) the Bank shall disclose and provide to the Board including the director all
information which is reasonably required for them to carry out their functions
and duties as a directors of the Bank and to take informed decisions in respect
of matters brought before the Board for its consideration or entrusted to the
director by the Board or any committee thereof;
(iii) the disclosures to be made by the Bank to the directors shall include but not
be limited to the following:
(a) all relevant information for taking informed decisions in respect of
matters brought before the Board;
(b) Bank’s strategic and business plans and forecasts;
(c) organisational structure of the Bank and delegation of authority,
(d) corporate and management controls and systems including
procedures;
(e) economic features and marketing environment,
(f) information and updates as appropriate on Bank’s products;
(g) information and updates on major expenditure;
(h) periodic reviews of performance of the Bank; and
(i) report periodically about implementation of strategic initiatives and
57

plans;
(iv) the Bank shall communicate outcome of Board deliberations to directors and
concerned personnel and prepare and circulate minutes of the meeting of
Board to directors in a timely manner and to the extent possible within two
business days of the date of conclusion of the Board meeting; and
(v) advise the director about the levels of authority delegated in matters placed
before the Board.
4. The Bank shall provide to the director periodic reports on the functioning of internal
control system including effectiveness thereof.
5. The Bank shall appoint a compliance officer who shall be a Senior executive
reporting to the Board and be responsible for setting forth policies and procedures
and shall monitor adherence to the applicable laws and regulations and policies and
procedures including but not limited to directions of Reserve Bank of India and other
concerned statutory and governmental authorities.
6. The director shall not assign, transfer, sublet or encumber his/her office and his/her
rights and obligations as director of the Bank to any third party provided that nothing
herein contained shall be construed to prohibit delegation of any authority, power,
function or delegation by the Board or any committee thereof subject to applicable
laws and regulations including Memorandum and Articles of Association of the Bank.
7. The failure on the part of either party hereto to perform, discharge, observe or comply
with any obligation or duty shall not be deemed to be a waiver thereof nor shall it
operate as a bar to the performance, observance, discharge or compliance thereof
at any time or times thereafter.
8. Any and all amendments and/or supplements and/or alterations to this Deed of
Covenants shall be valid and effectual only if in writing and signed by the director
and the duly authorised representative of the Bank.
9. This Deed of Covenants has been executed in duplicate and both the copies shall
be deemed to be originals.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF THE PARTIES HAVE DULY EXECUTED THIS
58

AGREEMENT ON THE DAY, MONTH AND YEAR FIRST ABOVE WRITTEN.
For the Bank Director
By ………………… …………………
Name: Name:
Title:
In the presence of:
1. …………………… . 2. ……………………
59

Annex III
Form – A
Application for the approval of Reserve Bank of India to an amendment of a
provision relating to the appointment/ re-appointment/ remuneration, etc.,
of Managing Director & Chief Executive Officer (MD&CEO / CEO) or any other
Director or termination of appointment of a Director
Name of the banking company:
Address:
Date
The Chief General Manager-in-Charge
Department of Regulation
Central Office
Reserve Bank of
India Mumbai-
400001
Madam/Dear Sir,
Section 35B of the Banking Regulation Act, 1949
We hereby apply for the approval of the Reserve Bank in terms of Section 35B of the
Banking Regulation Act, 1949, to the following amendment/s of the relevant provision/s
as per particulars given below. We shall be glad to furnish any further information that
you may deem necessary in this connection.
Yours faithfully,
(Signature)
(Designation)
60

Sr No Particulars Information
Disclosed
(1) State who the competent authority is to make the amendment/s
in question. In case it is the Board of Directors, please quote the
number of the relevant Article:
[A certified copy of the resolution (also mentioning the date
thereof) of the competent authority - the General Body or the
Board of Directors, as the case may be - authorising the
amendment/s should be furnished along with the application. If
the resolution is in vernacular, a certified copy thereof - as
translated into English may preferably be supplied.]
(2) Full name of the person to whom the amendment relates:
(3) Post held by him and whether he is also the MD&CEO / CEO:
(4) Particulars of -
(a) the existing provision/s:
(b) the proposed amendment/s:
[For instance: an amendment of the Articles/ Memorandum of
Association relating to the appointment or re-appointment or
termination of appointment or remuneration of the specified
persons; additions to the remuneration payable to them such as
by way of an increase in the pay, allowances, perquisites and
benefits, etc.]
(5) Position in regard to compliance with such of the provisions of
the Companies Act, 2013, as are attracted, e.g., Sections
188,190,196,197:
Please state the position with reference to each Section (which
is applicable) separately.
(6) Any additional facts which the banking company may like to state
in support of the application or otherwise:
For
(Name of the banking company)
(Signature)
(Designation)
61

Annex IV
Form - B
Application for the approval of Reserve Bank of India to the appointment/ re-
appointment of Managing Director & Chief Executive Officer (MD&CEO / CEO)
Whole-Time Directors / Part-Time Chairperson
Name of Banking Company:
Address:
Date:
The Chief General Manager-in-Charge
Department of Regulation
Central Office
Reserve Bank of
India Mumbai-
400001
Madam/Dear Sir,
Section 35B / 10B(1A)(i) of the Banking Regulation Act, 1949
We hereby apply for the approval of the Reserve Bank in terms of Section 35B /
10B(1A)(i) of the Banking Regulation Act, 1949, to the following appointment/re-
appointment* and give below the relevant particulars. We shall be glad to furnish any
further information that you may deem necessary in this connection.
Yours faithfully,
(Signature)
(Designation)
*Strike out the word that is not applicable.
62

Particulars
Sr No Particulars Information Disclosed
(1) State who the competent authority is to make
the appointment / re-appointment in question
and to fix the terms thereof. In case it is the
Board of Directors, please quote the number of
the relevant Article:
[A certified copy of the resolution (also
mentioning the date thereof) of the competent
authority, the General Body or the Board of
Directors, as the case may be authorising the
appointment/ re-appointment should be
furnished along with the application. If the
resolution is in vernacular, a certified copy
thereof as translated into English may
preferably be supplied.]
(2) Full name of the person to be appointed/ re-
appointed:
(3) Present designation:
(4) Person’s-
(a) Age:
(b) Academic qualifications:
(c) Banking and/or other professional
experience stating the name/s of the
institution/s, the position/s held therein and
the approximate period of such experience:
(5) Terms of appointment/ re-appointment:
(a) Whether the appointment/ re-appointment
will be under a contract or agreement:
(If so, a copy of the draft contract or
agreement should be furnished, together
with a copy of existing contract or
agreement, if any)
(b) Period of appointment/ re-appointment
63

fixed:
(c) Details of remuneration: To be furnished as per the
format prescribed in Annex
V
(6) (a) State whether the banking company
complies with the provisions of Section
10(1)(b)(i) and (ii) and Section 10(1)(c) of
the Banking Regulation Act, 1949 in
respect of the person proposed to be
appointed/ re-appointed:
(b) State whether the person to be appointed
as the Managing Director & Chief
Executive Officer (MD&CEO / CEO) is
subject to any of the disqualifications
mentioned in Section 10B(4) read with
Section 5(ne) of the Banking Regulation
Act, 1949:
(7) Position in regard to compliance with such of
the provisions of the Companies Act, 2013 as
are attracted, e.g. Section188, 190,196,197:
Please state the position with reference to
each Section separately.
(8) Any additional facts, which the banking
company may like to state in support of the
application or otherwise:
64

For
(Name of the banking company)
(Signature)
(Designation)
Note: In case the application relates to the re-appointment of the MD&CEO / CEO, also involving an
amendment of the provision/s relating to his existing appointment or remuneration, only one application
as in ‘Form B' need be submitted, particulars of existing provision/s and the proposed amendment/s
being furnished as indicated in item 5 thereof.
65

Annex V
Details of Remuneration/Compensation of the Whole Time Director/
Chief Executive Officer
Particulars Existing Proposed Reasons
(₹) (₹) for change
(1) (2) (3) (4)
PART-A:
Fixed Pay (including perquisites):
w.e.f.….………up to ……………
1. Salary
2. Dearness allowance
3. Retiral/Superannuation benefits:
(a) Provident Fund
(b) Gratuity
(c) Pension
(d) ………
4. Leave Fare Concession/ Allowance
5. Other fixed allowances, if any (please
specify)*
*Consolidated allowance, if any, to be
given with details of heads it subsumes.
6. Perquisites:
(i) Free Furnished House and its
maintenance / House Rent Allowance
(ii) Conveyance Allowance/Free use of
bank's car for
a) Official purposes
b) Private purposes
(iii) Driver(s)’ salary
(iv) Club Membership(s)
(v) Reimbursement of medical expenses
(vi) Any other perquisites (please specify)
Total Fixed pay (including perquisites)
Note:
(a) If any of the benefits is of a non-monetary nature, e.g. free furnished house, its monetary
equivalent as best as it is possible to determine, should invariably be given. In case the person
to be appointed is already associated with the applicant bank, particulars of his existing
compensation, etc. should be furnished.
(b) The reasons for any proposed changes in the remuneration should be suitably indicated under
column (4).
(c) In case the bank proposes to give any sign-on/joining bonus (limited to the first year), which
should be in the form of share-linked instruments, its details (such as number of shares, grant
date and price, monetary value, vesting schedule) should be furnished separately.
(d) Banks should exclude only such perquisites from fixed pay, which are reimbursables without
any monetary ceilings, e.g. hospitalization expenses, etc. Details of such perquisites should
be annexed separately and need not be added while computing total fixed pay. Such
exclusions are provided solely for such benefits/perquisites which are not quantifiable in
advance. These exclusions would be subject to supervisory review.
66

Particulars Existing Proposed Reasons
(₹) (₹) for change
(1) (2) (3) (4)
PART-B:
Variable Pay:
For FY/Performance Period …….........
1. Cash component
• Upfront payment (with %)
• Deferred payment (with %)
Total cash component
Vesting period (in years)
Deferral arrangement
(i) First Year
(ii) Second Year
(iii) Third Year
(iv) ……………..
2. Non-cash Components (Share-
linked instruments):
(i) ESOP/ESOS
(a) Number of share/ share-linked
instruments
(b) Monetary value
(c) Deferral (with %)
(d) Vesting schedule details
(ii) ...................... (Any other share-linked
instruments)
(a) Number of share/ share-linked
instruments
(b) Monetary value
(c) Deferral (with %)
(d) Vesting schedule details
(iii) Any other non-cash component
(please specify) and mention its
monetary value, deferral, vesting
67

Particulars Existing Proposed Reasons
(₹) (₹) for change
schedule, etc.
Total monetary value of non-cash
component(s)
Total monetary value of Variable Pay
(Cash and non-cash components)
% of Cash Component in Total Variable
Pay
% of Non-cash component in Total
Variable Pay
% of Variable Pay to Fixed Pay and
% of Variable Pay in Total Compensation
(for the same FY/Performance Period)
Total Compensation (Fixed Pay +
Variable Pay)
Note:
(a) Both parts- A and B have to be filled and submitted at the time of appointment/re-appointment
or seeking approval for the remuneration/revision of remuneration. The target variable pay,
along with various sub- components, deferral and vesting period, etc., should be submitted in
PART-B.
(b) Whenever the bank approaches RBI for approval of variable pay for a particular performance
measurement period, after the end of the period, only part-B has to be suitably filled and
submitted.
68

Annex VI
Statement on Composition of Board as on ____________
Name of the bank:
Number of Directors allowed under the Articles of Association of the bank:
Total number of Directors:
Sl Name Date of Date Whether Whether Special Remarks
of the Appointment of elected/ he was on Knowledge/
director birth co-opted the Practical
Board. If experience
so, period
Whether the constitution of Board of Directors
is in conformity with the provisions of Section 10A
of the Banking Regulation Act, 1949 :
Whether the Board consists of not less than 2
members who have special knowledge/ practical
experience in respect of agriculture and rural economy,
co-operation or SSI, and belonging to majority sector :
Whether the induction of Directors is in conformity with
The provisions of Section 16 of the Banking Regulation
Act, 1949 :
Whether any of the Directors or the Companies with
Which they are associated have been provided credit
Facilities by the bank :
Authorized signatory
69