भारतीय �रज़व र् बकैं
Reserve Bank of India
RBI/DoS/2026-27/432
DoS.CO.ARG.26/08.91.001/2026-27 July 31, 2026
Reserve Bank of India (Payments Banks – Statutory Audit) Directions, 2026
Table of Contents
Chapter I - Preliminary ............................................................................................. 3
A. Short Title and Commencement ..................................................................... 3
B. Applicability ..................................................................................................... 3
C. Definitions ........................................................................................................ 3
Chapter II - Governance and Oversight .................................................................. 6
A. Role of the Board and Senior Management ................................................... 6
Chapter III - Guidelines for Appointment ............................................................... 7
A. Number of Statutory Central Auditors / Statutory Auditors ......................... 7
B. Eligibility Criteria of Auditors ......................................................................... 7
C. Independence of Auditors ............................................................................. 11
D. Professional Standards ................................................................................. 12
E. Tenure and Rotation ...................................................................................... 12
F. Audit Fees and Expenses ............................................................................. 14
G. Appointment Procedure ................................................................................ 14
Chapter IV - Long Form Audit Report ................................................................... 16
A. Procedure and Timelines .............................................................................. 16
B. Long Form Audit Report by the Statutory Central Auditors ...................... 16
B.1 Objectives, Strategy, Scope and Coverage ......................................... 16
B.2 Indicative Coverage ............................................................................... 17
C. Long Form Audit Report by the Statutory Branch Auditors ...................... 24
Chapter V - Repeal and Other Provisions ............................................................ 25
A. Repeal and Saving ......................................................................................... 25
B. Application of Other Laws Not barred ......................................................... 25
पयर्वेक्षण िवभाग, भारतीय �रज़वर् बैंक, केंद्रीय कायार्लय, मेकर टावर-ई, 20वी ंमंिजल, कफ परेड, कोलाबा, मुंबई-400 005
दूरभाष: 022-6989 2022 ई-मेल: argdosco@rbi.org.in
Department of Supervision, Reserve Bank of India, Central Office, Maker Tower-E, 20th floor, Cuffe Parade, Colaba, Mumbai- 400 005
Tel: 022-6989 2022 Email: argdosco@rbi.org.in
िहंदी आसान है, इसका प्रयोग बढ़ाइए

RBI (PBs – Statutory Audit) Directions, 2026
C. Interpretations ................................................................................................ 26
Annex I .................................................................................................................... 27
Annex II ................................................................................................................... 29
Annex III .................................................................................................................. 30
Annex IV .................................................................................................................. 37
2

RBI (PBs – Statutory Audit) Directions, 2026
In exercise of powers conferred by Section 30(1A) of the Banking Regulation Act,
1949, and all other provisions / laws enabling the Reserve Bank of India (‘RBI’) in this
regard, RBI being satisfied that it is necessary and expedient in the public interest so
to do, hereby issues the Directions hereinafter specified.
Chapter I - Preliminary
A. Short Title and Commencement
1. These Directions shall be called the Reserve Bank of India (Payments Banks -
Statutory Audit) Directions, 2026.
2. These Directions shall come into effect immediately upon issuance.
B. Applicability
3. These Directions shall be applicable to the Payments Banks (hereinafter
collectively referred to as ‘banks’ and individually as ‘bank’) in respect of
appointment / reappointment of their Statutory Central Auditors (SCAs) /
Statutory Auditors (SAs).
For the purpose of these Directions, the term SCAs is applicable to banks which
appoint separate Statutory Branch Auditors (SBAs) whereas in all other cases,
the term SAs shall be applicable.
C. Definitions
4. In these Directions, unless the context states otherwise, the terms herein shall
bear the meaning assigned to them below:
(1) ‘All India Financial Institutions’ (hereinafter collectively referred to as ‘AIFIs’)
shall mean National Bank for Agriculture and Rural Development
(NABARD), Small Industries Development Bank of India (SIDBI), National
Housing Bank (NHB), Export-Import Bank of India (EXIM Bank) and
National Bank for Financing Infrastructure and Development (NaBFID) as
established under their respective statutes.
3

RBI (PBs – Statutory Audit) Directions, 2026
(2) ‘Audit Firm’ shall mean a partnership firm or Limited Liability Partnership
(LLP).
(3) ‘Central Co-operative Bank (CCB)’ shall be as defined under Sub-Section
(d) of Section 2 of National Bank for Agriculture and Rural Development
Act, 1981.
(4) ‘Commercial Banks’ means banking companies (other than Small Finance
Banks, Payment Banks, and Local Area Banks), corresponding new banks,
and the State Bank of India, as defined respectively under clauses (c), (da),
and (nc) of Section 5 of the Banking Regulation Act, 1949.
(5) ‘Group Entities’ shall mean two or more entities related to each other
through any of the following relationships, viz. Subsidiary - parent [defined
in terms of Accounting Standards (AS) 21], Joint venture (defined in terms
of AS 27), Associate (defined in terms of AS 23), Promoter Promotee [as
provided in the SEBI (Acquisition of Shares and Takeover) Regulations,
1997] for listed companies, a related party (defined in terms of AS 18),
Common brand name, and investment in equity shares of 20 per cent and
above.
(6) ‘NBFCs [including Housing Finance Companies (HFCs)]’ shall mean such
entities as defined in the Reserve Bank of India (Non-Banking Financial
Companies – Registration, Exemptions and Framework for Scale Based
Regulation) Directions, 2025.
(7) ‘Primary (Urban) Co-operative Banks (UCB)’ shall mean entities as defined
in Section 5 (ccv) read with Section 56 of the Banking Regulation Act, 1949.
(8) ‘Public Sector Banks (PSBs)’ (individually as a ‘PSB’) shall refer to State
Bank of India and corresponding new banks collectively.
(9) ‘State Bank of India’ shall mean State Bank of India as defined in Section 5
(nc) of the Banking Regulation Act, 1949.
4

RBI (PBs – Statutory Audit) Directions, 2026
(10) ‘State Co-operative Bank (StCB)’ shall be as defined under Sub-Section (u)
of Section 2 of National Bank for Agriculture and Rural Development Act,
1981.
5. All other expressions unless defined herein shall have the same meaning as
have been assigned to them under the Reserve Bank of India Act, 1934, the
Banking Regulation Act, 1949, the Companies Act, 2013, or any statutory
modification or re-enactment thereto or other regulations issued by RBI or the
Glossary of Terms published by RBI or as used in commercial parlance, as the
case may be.
5

RBI (PBs – Statutory Audit) Directions, 2026
Chapter II - Governance and Oversight
A. Role of the Board and Senior Management
6. The bank shall decide on the number of SCAs / SAs based on a Board Approved
Policy, inter alia, taking into account the relevant factors such as the size and
spread of assets, accounting and administrative units, complexity of transactions,
level of computerisation, availability of other independent audit inputs, identified
risks in financial reporting and any other relevant factors.
7. The Audit Committee of the Board (ACB) shall monitor and assess the
independence of the auditors and conflict of interest position in terms of relevant
regulatory provisions, standards, and best practices. Any concerns in this regard
shall be flagged by the ACB to the Board of Directors of the bank and the
concerned Senior Supervisory Manager (SSM), Department of Supervision
(DoS), RBI.
8. The Board / ACB of the bank shall review the performance of SCAs / SAs on an
annual basis. The bank shall report any serious lapses or negligence in audit
responsibilities or conduct issues on part of the SCAs / SAs or any other matter
considered as relevant to DoS, RBI within two months from completion of the
annual audit. The bank shall send such reports with the approval /
recommendation of the Board / ACB, with the full details of the audit firm. Board
shall review the performance of SCAs / SAs in case ACB is non-existent in the
bank.
9. The Board / ACB of the bank shall make recommendations to the competent
authority as per the relevant statutory / regulatory instructions for fixing of audit
fees of SCAs / SAs.
10. The bank shall formulate a Board approved policy to be hosted on its official
website / public domain and formulate necessary procedure thereunder to be
followed for appointment of SCAs / SAs. Apart from conforming to all relevant
statutory / regulatory requirements in addition to these instructions, this should
afford necessary transparency and objectivity for most key aspects of this
important assurance function.
6

RBI (PBs – Statutory Audit) Directions, 2026
Chapter III - Guidelines for Appointment
A. Number of Statutory Central Auditors / Statutory Auditors
11. The banks with asset size of ₹15,000 crore and above as at the end of previous
year, shall ensure to get their statutory audit conducted under joint audit by a
minimum of two audit firms. For the purpose of the Directions, asset size means
total assets. All other banks should appoint a minimum of one audit firm for
conducting statutory audit. The bank shall ensure that the joint auditors of the
bank do not have any common partners and they are not under the same network
of audit firms as defined in Rule 6(3) of the Companies (Audit and Auditors)
Rules, 2014. Further, the bank shall finalise the work allocation among SCAs /
SAs, before the commencement of the statutory audit, in consultation with their
SCAs / SAs.
12. Considering the above factors and the requirements of the bank, the Board shall
decide the actual number of SCAs / SAs to be appointed, subject to the following
limits:
Sr. Asset Size of the Bank Maximum Number of
No. SCAs / SAs
1. Up to ₹5,00,000 crore 4
2. Above ₹5,00,000 crore and up to ₹10,00,000 crore 6
3. Above ₹10,00,000 crore and up to ₹20,00,000 crore 8
4. Above ₹20,00,000 crore 12
The above limits have been prescribed to ensure that the number of SCAs / SAs
appointed by the bank are adequate, commensurate with the asset size and
extent of operations of the bank, with a view to ensure that audits are conducted
in a timely and effective manner.
13. In addition, the bank shall ensure adherence to the provisions of Section 143 (8)
of the Companies Act, 2013 regarding the audit of accounts of all branches.
B. Eligibility Criteria of Auditors
14. The bank shall appoint audit firm(s) as its SCA(s) / SA(s) fulfilling the eligibility
norms as prescribed below.
7

RBI (PBs – Statutory Audit) Directions, 2026
Asset Size of Minimum No. Out of total Minimum Minimum Minimu
the bank as of Full-Time FTPs, No. of Full No. of years m No.
on 31st March partners Minimum No. Time of Audit of
of Previous (FTPs) of Fellow Partners / Experience Profess
Year associated Chartered Paid CAs of the firm ional
with the audit Accountant with CISA / staff
firm for a (FCA) Partners ISA Note 3
period of at associated Qualificati Note 4
least three (3) with the audit on
years firm for a
period of at Note 2
Note 1 least three (3)
years
Above ₹15,000
5 4 2 15 18
crore
Above ₹1,000
crore and up to 3 2 1 8 12
₹15,000 crore
Up to ₹1,000
2 1 1 6 8
crore
Note 1: There shall be at least one-year continuous association of partners with
the audit firm as on the date of shortlisting by the bank for considering them as
full-time partners. Further, for appointment as SCAs / SAs of the bank with an
asset size above ₹1,000 crore, at least two partners of the firm shall have
continuous association with the firm for at least 10 years. For the bank with an
asset size above ₹1,000 crore, the full-time partner’s association with the audit
firm shall mean ‘exclusive association’. The definition of ‘exclusive association’
will be based on the following criteria:
(1) The full-time partner should not be a partner in other audit firm(s).
(2) They should not be employed full time / part time elsewhere.
(3) They should not be practicing in their own name or engaged in practice
otherwise or engaged in other activity which would be deemed to be in
practice under Section 2(2) of the Chartered Accountants Act, 1949.
(4) The Board / ACB shall examine and ensure that the income of the partner
from the firm / Limited Liability Partnership (LLP) is adequate for
8

RBI (PBs – Statutory Audit) Directions, 2026
considering them as full-time exclusively associated partners, which will
ensure the capability of the firm for the purpose.
Note 2: Certified Information Systems Auditor (CISA) / Information Systems
Audit (ISA) Qualification:
There shall be at least one-year continuous association of Paid CAs with CISA /
ISA qualification with the firm as on the date of shortlisting by the bank for
considering them as Paid CAs with CISA / ISA qualification for the purpose.
Note 3: Audit Experience:
Audit experience shall mean experience of the audit firm as Statutory Central /
Branch Auditor of Commercial Banks, Small Finance Banks, Payment Banks,
Local Area Banks, or AIFIs. In case of merger and demerger of audit firms,
merger effect will be given after two years of merger while demerger will be
effected immediately for this purpose.
Note 4: Professional Staff:
Professional staff includes audit and article clerks with knowledge of book-
keeping and accountancy and who are engaged in on-site audits but excludes
typists / stenographers / computer operators / secretaries / subordinate staff.
There should be at least one-year of continuous association of professional staff
with the audit firm as on the date of shortlisting by the bank for considering them
as professional staff for the purpose.
15. Additional Consideration
(1) The audit firm, proposed to be appointed as SCAs / SAs for the bank,
should be duly qualified for appointment as auditor of a company in terms
of Section 141 of the Companies Act, 2013.
(2) The audit firm should not be under debarment by any Government Agency,
National Financial Reporting Authority (NFRA), the Institute of Chartered
Accountants of India (ICAI), RBI or other financial regulators.
9

RBI (PBs – Statutory Audit) Directions, 2026
(3) The bank shall ensure that appointment of SCAs / SAs is in line with the
ICAI’s Code of Ethics / any other such standards adopted and does not give
rise to any conflict of interest.
(4) If any partner of an audit firm is a director in any bank, the said firm shall
not be appointed as SCAs / SAs of any of the group entities of that bank.
Explanation: The Group Entities here refer to RBI regulated entities in the
Group, which fulfil the definition of Group Entity, as provided in these
Directions. Therefore, if any partner of an audit firm is a director in an RBI
regulated entity in the Group, the said firm shall not be appointed as SCAs
/ SAs of any of the RBI regulated entities in the Group. However, if an audit
firm is being considered by any of the RBI regulated entities in the Group
for appointment as SCAs / SAs, whose partner is a director in any of the
Group Entities (which are not regulated by RBI), the said audit firm shall
make appropriate disclosures to the ACB as well as Board.
(5) The SCAs / SAs for the bank with asset size above ₹1,000 crore should
preferably have capability and experience in deploying Computer Assisted
Audit Tools and Techniques (CAATTs) and Generalized Audit Software
(GAS), commensurate with the degree / complexity of computer
environment of the bank where the accounting and business data reside in
order to achieve audit objectives.
16. Continued Compliance with Basic Eligibility Criteria
(1) In case an audit firm (after appointment) fails to comply with any of the
eligibility norms (on account of reasons such as resignation or death of any
of the partners/ employees, action by Government Agencies, NFRA, ICAI,
RBI, and other financial regulators), it shall promptly approach the bank with
full details. Further, the audit firm shall take all necessary steps to regain
eligibility within a reasonable time and in any case, the audit firm must
comply with the above norms before commencement of Annual Statutory
Audit for Financial Year ending 31st March and till the completion of annual
audit.
10

RBI (PBs – Statutory Audit) Directions, 2026
(2) In case of any extraordinary circumstance after the commencement of
audit, like death of one or more partners, employees or any other reason,
which makes the audit firm ineligible with respect to any of the eligibility
norms, RBI will have the discretion to allow the concerned audit firm to
complete the audit, as a special case.
C. Independence of Auditors
17. In case of any concern with the management of the bank such as non-availability
of information / non-cooperation by the management, which may hamper the
audit process, the SCAs / SAs shall approach the Board / ACB of the bank, under
intimation to the concerned SSM of RBI. The SCAs / SAs shall directly approach
the Board only when the bank does not have an ACB or when they notice a
matter of concern involving any member of the ACB.
18. Concurrent auditors of the bank should not be considered for appointment as
SCAs / SAs of the same bank. Before appointment or after completion of the
audit assignment as SCAs / SAs, the time gap between any non-audit works
(services mentioned in Section 144 of Companies Act, 2013, internal
assignments or special assignments) by the SCAs / SAs for the bank or any audit
/ non-audit works for its group entities should be at least one year. However,
during the tenure as SCA / SA, an audit firm may provide such services to the
concerned bank which may not normally result in a conflict of interest, and bank
shall take its own decision in this regard, in consultation with the Board / ACB. A
conflict of interest would not normally arise in the case of following special
assignments (indicative list):
(1) Tax audit, tax representation and advice on taxation maters
(2) Audit of interim financial statements
(3) Certificates required to be issued by the SCA / SA in compliance with
statutory or regulatory requirements
(4) Reporting on financial information or segments thereof
11

RBI (PBs – Statutory Audit) Directions, 2026
Explanation: The Group Entities refer to RBI regulated entities in the
Group, which fulfil the definition of Group Entity as provided in the
directions. However, if an audit firm engaged with audit / non- audit works
for the Group Entities (which are not regulated by RBI) is being considered
by any of the RBI regulated entities in the Group for appointment as SCAs /
SAs, it shall be the responsibility of the Board / ACB of the concerned RBI
regulated entity to ensure that there is no conflict of interest and
independence of auditors is ensured, and this should be suitably recorded
in the minutes of the meetings of Board / ACB.
19. The restrictions as detailed in Paragraph 18 above, shall also apply to an audit
firm under the same network of audit firms or any other audit firm having common
partners, as defined in Rule 6(3) of the Companies (Audit and Auditors) Rules,
2014.
D. Professional Standards
20. The SCAs / SAs shall be strictly guided by the relevant professional standards in
discharge of their audit responsibilities with highest diligence.
21. In the event of lapses in carrying out audit assignments resulting in misstatement
of a bank’s financial statements, and any violations / lapses vis-à-vis RBI’s
Directions regarding the role and responsibilities of the SCAs / SAs in relation to
the bank, the SCAs / SAs would be liable to be dealt with suitably under the
relevant statutory / regulatory framework.
E. Tenure and Rotation
22. In order to protect the independence of the auditors, the bank shall appoint the
SCAs / SAs for a continuous period of three years, subject to the firms satisfying
the eligibility norms each year. The audit firms which have already completed
tenure of one year or two years with any bank may be permitted to complete the
balance tenure only, i.e., two years and one year, respectively, if they fulfil the
eligibility norms on an annual basis. Further, the bank can remove the audit firms
during the above period only with the prior approval of DoS, RBI as applicable
for prior approval for appointment, as mentioned at Paragraph 29 (1) of these
12

RBI (PBs – Statutory Audit) Directions, 2026
Directions. Upon completion of the prescribed tenure of three years of the SCA /
SA and until appointment of the incoming SCAs / SAs for the relevant financial
year, the outgoing SCAs / SAs of the bank may continue for the Limited Review
of financial statements for ensuing quarter(s), in accordance with the provisions
of this Direction and the applicable statutory requirements.
23. An audit firm shall not be eligible for reappointment in the same bank for six years
(two tenures) after completion of full or part of one term of the audit tenure.
However, audit firms can continue to undertake statutory audit of other Entities.
In case an audit firm has conducted audit of any bank for part-tenure (one year
or two years) and then not appointed for remainder tenure, then also it shall not
be eligible for reappointment in the same bank for six years from completion of
part-tenure.
24. One audit firm can concurrently take up statutory audit of a maximum of four
Small Finance Banks, Payment Banks, Commercial Banks and Local Area
Banks (but not more than one PSB or one AIFI or RBI), eight UCBs, eight NBFCs
and five StCBs / CCBs (including not more than one StCB) during a particular
year, subject to compliance with required eligibility criteria and other conditions
for each bank and within overall ceiling prescribed by any other statutes or rules.
For clarity, the limits prescribed for UCBs exclude audit of other co-operative
societies by the same audit firm. These limits are applicable in respect of audit of
all RBI regulated entities, irrespective of the asset size.
For the purpose of these Directions, a group of audit firms having common
partners and / or under the same network, will be considered as one entity and
they shall be considered for allotment of SCAs / SAs accordingly. Shared / Sub-
contracted audit by any other / associate audit firm under the same network of
audit firms is not permissible. The incoming audit firm shall not be eligible if such
audit firm is associated with the outgoing auditor or audit firm under the same
network of audit firms.
25. If the bank is appointing separate branch auditors, then it shall ensure that there
are no common partners between the retiring audit firm/s and proposed audit
firm(s). If the retiring and proposed auditors are proprietary concerns, the firm in
13

RBI (PBs – Statutory Audit) Directions, 2026
which any proprietor or both is / are partner(s) should not be considered for audit.
Further, the sister concerns or associate firms of rested auditors should also not
be proposed for appointment till they complete the rest period.
26. Office of CAG will continue to appoint SAs of the Government Companies and
Government Controlled Other Companies under Section 139 (5) and 139 (7) of
the Companies Act, 2013. Such Companies are also subject to supplementary /
test audit by the Office of CAG under Section 143 (6) and (7) of the said Act.
Such entities will be guided by the CAG guidelines regarding tenure and rotation
policy. However, such appointment for India Post Payments Bank Limited will be
done by the Office of CAG with concurrence of RBI.
F. Audit Fees and Expenses
27. The audit fees for SCAs / SAs shall be decided in terms of the relevant statutory /
regulatory provisions.
28. The audit fees for SCAs / SAs shall be reasonable and commensurate with the
scope and coverage of audit, size and spread of assets, accounting and
administrative units, complexity of transactions, level of computerisation and
identified risks in financial reporting.
G. Appointment Procedure
29. The guidelines on minimum procedural requirements are given below:
(1) The bank shall obtain prior approval of DoS, RBI for the appointment /
reappointment of SCAs / SAs, on an annual basis in terms of the above-
mentioned statutory provisions. For the purpose, the bank shall apply to
DoS, RBI before 31st July of the reference year.
(2) The bank shall shortlist minimum of two audit firms for every vacancy of
SCAs / SAs so that even if the audit firm at first preference is found to be
ineligible / refuses appointment, the audit firm at second preference can be
appointed and the process of appointment of SCAs / SAs does not get
delayed. However, in case of reappointment of SCAs / SAs by the bank till
completion of tenure of continuous term of three years, there shall not be
14

RBI (PBs – Statutory Audit) Directions, 2026
any requirement of shortlisting and sending names of multiple audit firms to
RBI while seeking approval to appointment.
(3) The bank shall continue to follow the existing procedure followed by them
for selection of SCAs / SAs. They shall place the name of shortlisted audit
firms, in order of preference, before their ACB for selection as SCAs / SAs.
Upon selection of SCAs / SAs by the bank in consultation with their ACB
and verifying their compliance with the eligibility norms prescribed by RBI,
the bank shall seek RBI’s prior approval for appointment of SCAs / SAs.
(4) The bank shall obtain a certificate, along with relevant information as per
Annex I (Form B), from the audit firm(s) proposed to be appointed as
SCAs / SAs by the bank to the effect that the audit firm(s) complies with all
the eligibility norms prescribed by RBI for the purpose. Such certificate shall
be signed by the main partner(s) of the audit firm proposed for appointment
of SCAs / SAs of the bank, under the seal of the said audit firm.
(5) The bank shall verify the compliance of audit firm(s) to the eligibility norms
prescribed by RBI for the purpose and after being satisfied of their eligibility,
recommend the names along with a certificate, in the format as per Annex
II (Form C), stating that the audit firm(s) proposed to be appointed as SCAs
/ SAs by it complies with all eligibility norms prescribed by RBI for the
purpose.
(6) While approaching RBI for its prior approval for appointment of SCAs / SAs,
the bank shall indicate its total asset size as on 31st March of the previous
year (audited figures), forward a copy of Board / ACB Resolution
recommending names of audit firms for appointment as SCAs / SAs in the
order of preference and also furnish information as per Annex I (Form B)
and Annex II (Form C), as mentioned above, to facilitate expeditious
approval of appointment / re-appointment of the concerned audit firm.
15

RBI (PBs – Statutory Audit) Directions, 2026
Chapter IV - Long Form Audit Report
A. Procedure and Timelines
30. The bank shall ensure timely receipt of Long Form Audit Report (LFAR) from the
SCAs / SAs / SBAs.
31. The LFAR of the bank, after due examination, shall be placed before the ACB of
the bank, indicating the action taken / proposed to be taken for rectification of the
irregularities, if any, mentioned therein.
32. The bank shall forward a copy of the LFAR, for the bank as a whole, along with
the related agenda notes and the Board's views or directions, to the concerned
Senior Supervisory Manager (SSM), DoS, RBI, within 60 days from the date of
submission of the same by the SCA / SA.
B. Long Form Audit Report by the Statutory Central Auditors
B.1 Objectives, Strategy, Scope and Coverage
33. The overall objective of the LFAR should be to identify and assess the gaps and
vulnerable areas in the business operations, risk management, compliance and
the efficacy of internal audit and provide an independent opinion on the same to
the Board of the bank and provide the observations of SCAs.
34. This may also involve commenting on various risks to which the bank is exposed
to such as credit, market, operational and liquidity risk and risk management
efficacy, assessment of appropriateness of procedures for preparation of
supervisory returns, Know Your Customer (KYC) / Anti-Money Laundering (AML)
/ Combating Financing of Terrorism (CFT) issues, cyber security, business
performance, business strategy including very high growth / high return on equity
(ROE) accompanied with high risks.
35. Some of the matters to be dealt with by the SCAs in their LFARs will be based
on the LFARs received from the SBAs. In dealing with such matters, the SCAs
should exercise their own judgement to make their observations based on review
of LFARs from SBAs.
16

RBI (PBs – Statutory Audit) Directions, 2026
36. While deciding their audit strategy, the SCAs shall factor-in all material issues
which are considered critical by looking at the size and complexity of the business
operations, business strategy / models, internal controls including the control
culture of the bank, structure and complexity of the IT systems, etc.
37. The scope and coverage of Statutory Audit and LFAR will broadly be as per the
indicative areas given in Paragraphs 40 to 63. However, if the SCAs feel a need
for some material additions in the scope, this shall be done by giving specific
justification and with the prior intimation to the ACB of the bank.
38. SCAs may resort to need based limited transaction testing.
39. In deciding whether a qualification in the main report is necessary, the SCAs
should use their judgement based on the available evidence / facts and
circumstances of each case. The bank is expected to measure and monitor the
accuracy of data and to develop appropriate escalation channels and action
plans to rectify any deterioration in data quality.
B.2 Indicative Coverage
B.2.1 Credit Risk Areas
40. Counterparty Credit Assessment: Whether the credit assessment process is
sufficiently placed to capture the risk as also the adequacy of information / data
available with the bank.
41. Sanctioning: Policy relating to delegation of powers at various levels,
appropriateness of checks and balances, adherence to authorised limits, etc.
42. Review / Monitoring / Post Sanction Follow-up / Supervision: Extent of
coverage and effectiveness of credit monitoring system covering both on balance
sheet and off-balance sheet exposures, along with the quality of reporting should
be examined along with adherence to RBI instructions / bank’s own policy.
Special focus should be given on functioning and effectiveness of system of
receipt of periodic confirmation / acknowledgement of balances, etc. System of
scrutiny of the above information and follow-up by the bank should also be
17

RBI (PBs – Statutory Audit) Directions, 2026
examined to identify process gaps. Review / renewal / enhancement of limits,
overall monitoring of balances should also be examined and suitably factored-in.
B.2.2 Market Risk Areas
43. Investments including Derivatives: The focus should be on the merit of
investment policy and adherence to RBI guidelines. Any deviations to the RBI
directions, and guidelines issued by Fixed Income Money Market and Derivatives
Association of India / Financial Benchmarks India Private Limited / Foreign
Exchange Dealers' Association of India should be suitably highlighted. Special
focus should be given on system of purchase and sale of investments, delegation
of powers, reporting systems, segregation of back, middle and front office
functions, efficacy of control over investments, including periodic verification /
reconciliation of investments with book records, valuation mode, changes in
mode of valuation, system relating to inter-bank call money operations, system
relating to unquoted investments in the portfolio, system of audit including
periodic verification / verification of investment activities / portfolios, policies and
systems for monitoring activities such as underwriting, derivatives, etc., among
others. With respect to RBI directions, special focus should be given on
compliance to exposure norms, classification of investments into Held to Maturity
(HTM) / Available for Sale (AFS) / Fair Value through Profit and Loss (FVTPL)
category and inter-category shifting of securities, compliance to valuation, asset
classification and provisioning norms, along with deviation from accounting and
disclosure norms, among others. Comments should also be made on the
composition of investment portfolio as per RBI guidelines and the depreciations
on investments, if not provided for. System of recording of income from
investments, income accrued and due but not received, monitoring of mature
investments and their timely encashment etc. should be examined and
commented. The auditor shall also comment upon the veracity of liquidity
characteristics of different investments in the books, as claimed by the bank in
different regulatory / statutory statements. The internal control system, including
all audits and inspections, IT and software being used by the bank for investment
operations should be examined in detail.
18

RBI (PBs – Statutory Audit) Directions, 2026
44. Statutory Liquidity Ratio (SLR) / Cash Reserve Ratio (CRR) Requirements:
Any discrepancies in the process of compilation and calculation of Net Demand
and Time Liabilities (NDTL) by the bank should be highlighted in LFAR. It should
be specifically commented whether the bank has complied with SLR / CRR
requirements, with the instances of non-compliance, thereof.
45. Asset Liability Management: Existence of Policy on Asset-Liability
Management and monitoring thereof, along with compliance with RBI guidelines
and functioning of Asset Liability Management Committee should be examined.
B.2.3 Governance, Assurance Functions and Operational Risk Areas
46. Governance and Assurance Functions: Observations on governance, policy
and implementation of business strategy and its adequacy vis-à-vis the risk
appetite statement of the bank, effectiveness of assurance functions (risk
management, compliance and internal audit) should be examined and suitably
incorporated in the LFAR. Adequacy of risk-awareness, risk-taking and risk-
management, risk and compliance culture per se, compliance testing, including
the sustenance of the compliance, as also system of branch inspection,
frequency, scope / coverage of inspection / internal audit, concurrent audit or
revenue audit should also be examined along with the system of follow-up of
these reports, position of compliance, corrective action taken by the bank among
others.
47. Balancing of Books / Reconciliation of Control and Subsidiary Records:
Special focus should be given on the system of control for internal accounts along
with effectiveness of the system of monitoring the position of balancing of books /
reconciliation of control and subsidiary records, with details of books not
balanced, if any. The item wise details of system generated transitory accounts
not nullified at the year-end should be given separately with ageing of such items.
48. Inter-Branch Reconciliation: The effectiveness of the system of inter-branch /
inter-office reconciliation with respect to each type of entries, along with
sufficiency of audit trail should be examined and commented upon. Age-wise
analysis of unreconciled entries for each type of entry covered under inter-branch
reconciliation, as on balance sheet date along with subsequent clearance,
19

RBI (PBs – Statutory Audit) Directions, 2026
thereof, if any, should be provided. Any unusual entries observed in the
reconciliation process, along with procedure for auto and forced matching of
entries, should be commented. Compliance with RBI guidelines with respect to
provisioning for old outstanding entries, should be factored in the observations.
49. Frauds / Vigilance: Appropriateness of fraud risk management system and
processes for early detection, timely reporting to RBI, investigation of frauds as
also adequacy of provisioning with respect to reported frauds and deviations
observed in compliance with directions issued by RBI should be examined and
commented upon. Age-wise analysis of the cases / complaints investigated /
under investigation of Vigilance Department along with observations on major
frauds discovered during the year under audit should be provided. Special focus
should be given on the potential risk areas which might lead to perpetuation of
fraud.
50. Suspense Accounts, Sundry Deposits, etc.: System of clearance of items
debited / credited to suspense / sundry accounts should be examined with the
focus on audit trail, along with age-wise analysis of un-cleared entries of
suspense accounts, sundry deposits, etc. as on balance sheet date along with
subsequent clearance, thereof, if any. Any unusual entries observed in suspense
accounts, sundry deposits etc. should be specifically commented. An
examination of inactive / inoperative accounts may also be carried out, as it is a
fraud prone area. It should also be examined whether the bank has made
adequate provision with respect to un-cleared entries in suspense accounts,
sundry deposits, etc. as per the RBI guidelines and to the satisfaction of the
auditor.
51. Know Your Customer (KYC) / Anti-Money Laundering (AML): It should be
examined whether the bank has duly updated and approved KYC and AML
policies in synchronization with RBI directions and whether the said policies are
effectively implemented by the bank. Assessment of the effectiveness of
provisions for preventing money laundering and terrorist financing may be
provided for.
20

RBI (PBs – Statutory Audit) Directions, 2026
52. Cash and Other Security Items: System of monitoring of cash at branches, and
management of cash through currency chest operations, including adequacy of
insurance cover, system and procedure for physical custody of cash, systems
and controls for procurement, issue and custody of valued stationary items such
as Cheque Books, Demand Drafts, Pay Orders, Gold Coins etc., should be
examined.
53. Para-Banking Activities: It should be examined whether the bank has effective
internal control system with respect to para-banking activities undertaken by it. A
list of para-banking activities undertaken by the bank should be provided.
54. Management Information System (MIS): Existence and adequacy of MIS,
method of compilation and accuracy of information, appropriateness of
procedures for preparation of supervisory returns and their reliability under the
Off-Site Surveillance System of RBI, reliability of information flow for the internal
risk management system should be commented. Additionally, comments should
also be provided on whether the bank has effective system of preparation and
consolidation of branch returns and financial statements.
55. Any Other Comments relating to People, Process and System Risks: Any
other concerns relating to people, process and system risks may be commented
upon.
B.2.4 Capital Adequacy
56. Capital Adequacy Certificate: A copy of the capital adequacy certificate should
be provided along with comments as to whether the bank has effective system
of calculation of capital adequacy as per the directions of RBI. Any concerns
which are considered material relating to the bank’s solvency and capital may be
commented upon.
B.2.5 Going Concern and Liquidity Risk Assessment
57. Going Concern Assessment: The auditor should comment whether the going
concern basis of preparation of financial statements is appropriate; and auditor’s
evaluation of the bank’s assessment of its ability to continue to meet its
21

RBI (PBs – Statutory Audit) Directions, 2026
obligations for the foreseeable future (for at least 12 months after the date of the
financial statements) with reasonable assurance for the same. Any material
uncertainties relating to going concern should be disclosed.
58. Profitability: Analysis of variation in major items of income and expenditure
compared to previous year should be carried out along with important ratios such
as Return on Assets (RoA), Return on Equity (RoE), etc.
59. Liquidity Assessment: As a part of assessment of the bank on going concern
basis, the auditor should also consider the robustness of the bank’s liquidity risk
management systems and controls for managing liquidity, any external indicators
that reveal liquidity or funding concerns, the availability of short-term liquidity
support and compliance with norms relating to Liquidity Coverage Ratio (LCR)
and Net Stability Funding Ratio (NSFR) among others.
B.2.6 Information Systems
60. Robustness of Information Technology (IT) Systems: Auditors should
comment on the robustness of IT systems covering all the software used by the
bank along with functions thereof, inter-linkage / interface between different IT
Systems, Automated Teller Machine (ATM) network and its security, payment
system products and services among others. It should be examined whether the
software used by the bank were subjected to Information System (IS) Audit,
Application function testing and any other audit mandated by RBI. Adequacy of
IS Audit, migration audit (as and where applicable) and any other audit relating
to IT and cyber security system and bank’s compliance to the findings of those
audits should be commented upon.
61. IT Security and Information Security Policy: Auditors should comment
whether the bank has duly updated and approved IT Security and Information
Security Policy and whether the bank has complied with RBI advisory / directives
relating to IS environment / cyber security, issued from time-to-time.
62. Critical Systems / Processes: It should be examined whether there is an
effective system of inter-linkage including seamless flow of data under Straight
Through Process (STP) amongst various software / packages deployed. Special
22

RBI (PBs – Statutory Audit) Directions, 2026
emphasis should be placed on outsourced activities and bank’s control over
them, including bank’s own internal policy for outsourced activities.
B.2.7 Other Matters
63. Comments on the following should also be provided:
(1) Accounting policies including changes in accounting policies made during
the period.
(2) Adequacy of provisions made for statutory liabilities such as Income Tax,
Gratuity, Pension, Provident Fund, etc.
(3) Adequacy of provisions made for off-balance sheet exposures and other
claims against the bank.
(4) Balances with other banks - observations on outstanding items in
reconciliation statements.
(5) Procedure for revaluation of NOSTRO accounts and outstanding forward
exchange contracts.
(6) System related to compliance with Depositor Education and Awareness
Fund (DEAF) norms.
(7) Compliance mechanism with regard to recommendations of specific
committees appointed by RBI such as Ghosh, Jilani, Mitra, etc.
(8) Working of subsidiaries / associates / joint ventures of the bank.
(9) Reporting system to the holding bank.
(10) Major losses of the subsidiary, if any.
(11) Business conduct including customer service by the bank describing
instances, if any, of wrong debit of charges from customer accounts, mis-
selling, ineffective complaint disposal mechanism, etc.
(12) Any other matter, which the auditor considers should be brought to the
23

RBI (PBs – Statutory Audit) Directions, 2026
notice of the management.
C. Long Form Audit Report by the Statutory Branch Auditors
64. SBAs shall submit the LFAR to the SCAs of the bank. The overall objective of
the audit of bank branch should be to have transaction testing and provide inputs
to the SCAs on adequacy of implementation of various policy and regulatory
requirements, including efficacy of the system and assurance functions (risk
management, compliance and internal audit) at branch level.
65. The threshold fixed for different purposes for comments in the LFAR will decide
that above the threshold, the transaction detailing needs to be seen and
commented upon. However, below the threshold, the system and processes
should be checked and commented upon.
66. Verification of data integrity and data related control systems and processes
should be carried out and commented upon, with the special thrust on those data
inputs which are to be used for MIS at corporate office level and for supervisory
reporting purposes.
67. Indicative Format / Coverage in the LFAR by the SBAs is enclosed as Annex III.
Additional Questionnaire applicable to Specialised Branches is enclosed as
Annex IV. The questionnaire contains questions, which are relevant to the
specialised branches dealing in foreign exchange transactions, and clearing
house operations, if any.
24

RBI (PBs – Statutory Audit) Directions, 2026
Chapter V - Repeal and Other Provisions
A. Repeal and Saving
68. With the issue of these Directions, the existing directions, instructions, and
guidelines relating to Statutory Audit as applicable to Payments Banks stand
repealed, as communicated vide circular no.DoS.CO.PPG.66/11.01.005/2026-
27 dated July 31, 2026. The directions, instructions and guidelines already
repealed vide any of the directions, instructions, and guidelines listed in the
above circular shall continue to remain repealed.
69. Notwithstanding such repeal, any action taken or purported to have been taken,
or initiated under the repealed directions, instructions, or guidelines shall
continue to be governed by the provisions thereof. All approvals or
acknowledgments granted under these repealed lists shall be deemed as
governed by these Directions. Further, the repeal of these directions,
instructions, or guidelines shall not in any way prejudicially affect:
(1) any right, obligation or liability acquired, accrued, or incurred thereunder;
(2) any penalty, forfeiture, or punishment incurred in respect of any
contravention committed thereunder;
(3) any investigation, legal proceeding, or remedy in respect of any such right,
privilege, obligation, liability, penalty, forfeiture, or punishment as aforesaid;
and any such investigation, legal proceedings or remedy may be instituted,
continued, or enforced and any such penalty, forfeiture or punishment may
be imposed as if those directions, instructions, or guidelines had not been
repealed.
B. Application of Other Laws Not barred
70. The provisions of these Directions shall be in addition to, and not in derogation
of the provisions of any other laws, rules, regulations, or directions, for the time
being in force.
25

RBI (PBs – Statutory Audit) Directions, 2026
C. Interpretations
71. For giving effect to the provisions of these Directions or to remove any difficulties
in the application or interpretation of the provisions of these Directions, RBI may,
if it considers necessary, issue necessary clarifications in respect of any matter
covered herein and the interpretation of any provision of these Directions given
by RBI shall be final and binding.
(C. Saravanan)
Chief General Manager
26

RBI (PBs – Statutory Audit) Directions, 2026
Annex I
(FORM B)
Eligibility Certificate from (Name and Registration Number of the Audit Firm)
A. Particulars of the Firm:
Asset Number of Out of total Number of Number Number
Size of Full-Time FTPs, Full Time of Years of
the bank partners Number of Partners/ of Audit Professio
as on 31st (FTPs) FCA Paid CAs Experie nal staff
March of associated* Partners with CISA/ISA nce#
Previous with the firm associated Qualification
Year for a period with the
of three (3) firm for a
years period of
three (3)
years
*Exclusively associated in case of Payments Bank with asset size of more than
₹1,000 crore
#Details may be furnished separately for experience as SCAs / SAs and SBAs
B. Additional Information:
(i) Copy of Constitution Certificate.
(ii) Whether the firm is a member of any network of audit firms, or any partner
of the firm is a partner in any other audit firm? If yes, details thereof.
(iii) Whether the firm has been appointed as SCA / SA by any Other
Commercial Bank, Small Finance Bank, Payments Bank, Local Area Bank,
All India Financial Institution (AIFI), RBI, Non-Banking Financial Company,
or Urban Co-operative Bank in the present financial year? If yes, details
thereof.
(iv) Whether the firm has been debarred from taking up audit assignments by
any regulator / Government agency? If yes, details thereof.
27

RBI (PBs – Statutory Audit) Directions, 2026
(v) Details of disciplinary proceedings against firm by any Financial Regulator /
Government agency during last three years, both closed and pending.
C. Declaration from the firm
The firm complies with all eligibility norms prescribed by RBI regarding appointment of
SCAs / SAs of Payments Banks. It is certified that neither I nor any of our partners /
members of my / their families (family will include besides spouse, only children,
parents, brothers, sisters, or any of them who are wholly or mainly dependent on the
Chartered Accountants) or the firm / company in which I am / they are partners /
directors have been declared as wilful defaulter by any bank / financial institution. For
the purpose of this declaration, the credit facilities availed by companies where the
partner of a firm has been appointed as non-executive director in a professional
capacity having no financial interest shall not be included.
It is confirmed that the information provided above is true and correct.
Signature of the Partner
(Name of the Partner)
Date:
28

RBI (PBs – Statutory Audit) Directions, 2026
Annex II
(FORM C)
Certificate to be submitted by the Payments Banks regarding eligibility of
audit firm proposed to be appointed as Statutory Central Auditor (SCA) /
Statutory Auditor (SA)
1. The bank is desirous of appointing M/s ____________, Chartered Accountants
(Firm Registration Number________________) as Statutory Central Auditor (SCA)
/ Statutory Auditor (SA) for the financial year for their 1st / 2nd / 3rd
term and therefore has sought the prior approval of RBI as per the section 30(1A)
of the Banking Regulation Act, 1949.
2. The bank has obtained eligibility certificate (copy enclosed) from (name and Firm
Registration Number of the audit firm) proposed to be appointed as Statutory
Central Auditor (SCA) / Statutory Auditor (SA) of the bank for FY_______ along
with relevant information (copy enclosed), in the format as prescribed by RBI.
3. The firm has no past association / association for_____ years with the bank as
SCA / SA / SBA.
4. The bank has verified the said firm’s compliance with all eligibility norms
prescribed by RBI for appointment of SCAs / SAs of Payments Banks.
Signature
(Name and Designation)
Date:
29

RBI (PBs – Statutory Audit) Directions, 2026
Annex III
Indicative Format / Coverage in the Long Form Audit Report (LFAR) by the Statutory
Branch Auditors (SBAs)
Name of Bank:
Name of Branch:
Branch Code:
Zone / Circle Code:
Financial Year:
I. ASSETS
1. Cash
(a) Does the system ensure that cash :
maintained is in effective joint custody of two
or more officials, as per the instructions of
the controlling authorities of the bank?
(b) Have the cash balances at the branch / :
ATMs been checked at periodic intervals as
per the procedure prescribed by the
controlling authorities of the bank?
(c) (i) Does the branch generally maintain / carry :
cash balances, which vary significantly from
the limits fixed by the controlling authorities
of the bank?
(ii) Does the figure of the balance in the :
branch books in respect of cash with its
ATMs tally with the amounts of balances with
the respective ATMs, based on the year end
scrolls generated by the ATMs? If there is
any
difference, same should be reported.
(d) Whether the insurance cover available with :
the branch adequately meets the
requirement to cover the cash-in hand and
cash-in transit?
2. Balances with Reserve Bank of India, State Bank of India and other banks (For
branches with Treasury Operations)
(a) Were balance confirmation certificates :
obtained in respect of outstanding balances
as at the year-end and whether the aforesaid
balances have been reconciled? Nature
and extent of differences should be reported.
30

RBI (PBs – Statutory Audit) Directions, 2026
(b) Observations on the reconciliation :
statements may be reported in the following
manner:
(i) Cash transactions remaining un- :
responded (give details)
(ii) Revenue items requiring adjustments / :
write-off (give details)
(iii) Other credit and debit entries originated :
in the statements provided by RBI / other
banks, remaining un-responded for more
than 15
days:
(iv) Where the branch maintains an account :
with RBI, the following additional matter may
be reported:
Entries originated prior to, but
communicated/ recorded after the year end
in relation to currency chest operations at the
branch / other link branches, involving
deposits into / withdrawals from the currency
chest attached to such branches (Give
details)
(c) In case, any matter deserves special :
attention of the management, the same may
be reported.
3. Money at Call and Short Notice
(a) Has the branch kept money-at-call and short :
notice during the year?
(b) Has the year-end balance been duly :
confirmed and reconciled?
(c) Has interest accrued up to the year-end :
been properly recorded?
(d) Whether instructions / guidelines, if any, laid :
down by the controlling authorities of the
bank
have been complied with?
4. Investments (for branches outside India)
(a) In respect of purchase and sale of :
investments, has the branch acted within its
delegated authority, having regard to the
instructions / guidelines in this behalf issued
by the controlling authorities of the bank?
31

RBI (PBs – Statutory Audit) Directions, 2026
(b) Have the investments held by the branch :
whether on its own account or on behalf of
the Head Office / other branches been made
available for physical verification? Where the
investments are not in the possession of the
branch, whether evidence with regard to their
physical verification have been produced?
(c) Is the mode of valuation of investments in :
accordance with the RBI guidelines or the
norms prescribed by the relevant regulatory
authority of the country in which the branch
is located whichever are more stringent?
(d) Whether there are any matured or overdue :
investments which have not been encashed
and / or has not been serviced? If so, give
details?
5. Other Assets
(a)
Suspense Accounts / Sundry Assets
(i) Does the system of the bank ensure :
expeditious clearance of items debited to
Suspense Account? Details of outstanding
entries in excess of 90 days may be obtained
from the branch and the reasons for delay in
adjusting the entries may be ascertained.
Does your scrutiny of the accounts under
various sub-heads reveal balances, which in
your opinion are not recoverable and would
require a provision/write-off? If so, give
details.
(ii) Does your test check indicate any :
unusual items in these accounts? If so, report
their nature and the amounts involved. Are
there any intangible items under this head e.g.
losses not provided / pending investigation?
II. LIABILITIES
1. Deposits
(a) Does the bank have a system of identification :
of dormant/ inoperative accounts and internal
controls with regard to operations in such
accounts? In the cases examined by you, have
you come across instances where the
guidelines laid down in this regard have not
been followed? If yes, give details thereof.
32

RBI (PBs – Statutory Audit) Directions, 2026
(b) After the balance sheet date and till the date of :
audit, whether there have been any unusual
large movements (whether increase or
decrease) in the aggregate deposits held at the
year-end? If so, obtain the clarifications from
the branch and give your comments thereon.
(c) Is the branch complying with the regulations on :
minimum balance requirement and levy of
charges on non-maintenance of minimum
balance in individual savings accounts?
2. Other Liabilities – Bills Payable, Sundry Deposits, etc.
(a) The number of items and the aggregate :
amount of old outstanding items pending for
Year Number Amounts Remarks
one years, or more be obtained from the branch
of Items
and reported under appropriate heads. Give
details thereof.
(b) Does your test check indicate any unusual :
items or material withdrawals or debits in these
accounts? If so, give details thereof.
3. Contingent Liabilities
List of major items of the contingent liabilities :
(other than constituent’s liabilities such as
endorsements, etc.) not acknowledged by the
branch?
III. PROFIT AND LOSS ACCOUNT
(a) Has the test checking of interest / discount / :
commission / fees etc. revealed excess/short
credit of a material amount? If so, give details
thereof.
(b) Has the test check of interest on deposits :
revealed any excess/short debit of material
amount? If so, give details thereof.
(c) Does the bank have a system of estimating and :
providing interest accrued on
overdue/matured/ unpaid/ unclaimed term
deposits including in respect of deceased
depositors?
(d) Are there any divergent trends in major items :
of income and expenditure, in comparison with
corresponding previous year, which are not
satisfactorily explained by the branch? If so, the
same may be reported.
IV. GENERAL
1. Gold/ Bullion / Security Items
33

RBI (PBs – Statutory Audit) Directions, 2026
(a) Does the system ensure that gold/bullion is in :
effective joint custody of two or more officials,
as per the instructions of the controlling
authorities of the bank?
(b) Does the branch maintain adequate records :
for receipt, issues and balances of gold/bullion
and updated regularly? Does the periodic
verification reveal any excess/shortage of
stocks as compared to book records and if any
discrepancies observed have been promptly
reported to controlling authorities of the bank?
(c) Does the system of the Bank ensure adequate :
internal control over issue and custody of
security items (Term Deposit Receipts, Drafts,
Pay Orders, Cheque Books, Traveller's
Cheques, Gift Cheques, etc.)? Whether the
system is being followed by the branch? Have
you come across cases of missing/lost items?
2. Books and Records
(a) Whether there are any software / systems :
(manual or otherwise) used at the branch
which are not integrated with the CBS? If yes,
give details thereof.
(b) i) In case the branch has been subjected to IS :
Audit whether there are any adverse features
reported and have a direct or indirect bearing
on the branch accounts and are pending
compliance? If yes give details.
ii) Whether branch is generating and verifying :
exception reports at the periodicity as
prescribed by the bank.
iii) Whether the system of bank warrants :
expeditious compliance of daily exception
reports and whether there are any major
observations pending such compliance at the
year end.
iv) Whether the bank has laid down :
procedures for manual intervention to system
generated data and proper authentication of
the related transactions arising there from
along with proper audit trail of manual
intervention has been obtained.
34

RBI (PBs – Statutory Audit) Directions, 2026
v) Furnish your comments on data integrity :
(including data entry, checking
correctness/integrity of data, no back ended
strategies etc.) which is used for MIS at HO /
CO level.
3. Inter-Branch Accounts
Does the branch expeditiously comply with / :
respond to the communications from the
designated cell / Head Office as regards
unmatched transactions? As at the year-end
are there any un-responded/un-complied
queries or communications beyond 7 days? If
so, give details?
4. Frauds
Furnish particulars of: :
(i) Frauds detected / classified but
confirmation of reporting to RBI not available
on record at branch.
(ii) Whether any suspected or likely fraud :
cases are reported by branch to higher office
during the year? If yes, provide the details
thereof related to status of investigation.
(iii) In respect of fraud, based on your overall :
observation, please provide your comments
on the potential risk areas which might lead to
perpetuation of fraud.
(iv) Whether the system of Early Warning :
Framework is working effectively and as
required, the early warning signals form the
basis for classifying an account as RFA.
5. Implementation of KYC / AML guidelines
Whether the branch has adequate systems :
and processes, as required, to ensure
adherence to KYC / AML guidelines towards
prevention of money laundering and terrorist
financing?
Whether the branch followed the KYC / :
AML guidelines based on the test check
carried out by the branch auditors?
6. Management Information System
35

RBI (PBs – Statutory Audit) Directions, 2026
(a) Whether the branch has the proper systems :
and procedures to ensure data integrity relating
to all data inputs which are to be used for MIS
at corporate office level and for supervisory
reporting purposes. Have you come across any
instances where data integrity was
compromised?
7. Miscellaneous
(a) In framing your audit report / LFAR, have you :
considered the major adverse comments
arising out of the latest reports such as:
i) Previous year’s Branch Audit Report /
LFAR;
ii) Internal audit / Snap Audit / concurrent
audit report(s);
iii) RBI Inspection Report, if such inspection
took place;
iv) Income and Expenditure (Revenue) Audit;
v) IS / IT / Computer / Systems Audit; and
vi) Any special inspection / investigation
report?
(b) Are there any other matters, which you, as :
branch auditor, would like to bring to the notice
of the management or the Statutory Central
Auditors?
36

RBI (PBs – Statutory Audit) Directions, 2026
Annex IV
Additional Questionnaire Applicable to Specialised Branches
A. For Branches dealing in Foreign Exchange Transactions
1. Are there any material adverse features pointed out in the reports of concurrent
auditors, internal auditors, and / or the Reserve Bank of India’s inspection report
which continue to persist in relation to EEFC / RFC and other similar deposits
accounts. If so, furnish the particulars of such adverse features.
2. Whether the branch has followed the instructions and guidelines of the
controlling authorities of the bank with regard to the following in relation to the
foreign exchange and, if not, state the irregularities.
(a) Deposits
(b) Export bills
(c) Bills for collection
(d) Dealing room operations (where a branch has one)
(e) Any other area
3. NOSTRO Accounts (Obtain from the branch management, a list of all NOSTRO
Accounts maintained / operated by the branch).
(a) Whether the bank has a system of periodic confirmation / reconciliation of
the balances in NOSTRO accounts maintained with each overseas bank /
correspondent? Has such confirmation been received, and account
reconciled at year end in each case? If not, give details.
(b) Whether the system of the bank ensures that all entries originated by
overseas banks / correspondents, have been duly responded promptly in
the respective NOSTRO accounts maintained by the bank?
(c) Are there any dormant / closed NOSTRO accounts in respect of which
balances continue to exist in the books of the branch, at year end?
(d) Have the NOSTRO balances been converted at year end at the rates of
exchange as prescribed by the controlling authorities?
37

RBI (PBs – Statutory Audit) Directions, 2026
(e) In case, any matter deserves special attention of the management, the
same may be reported
4. Does the branch follow the prescribed procedures in relation to maintenance of
Vostro Accounts?
B. For branches dealing in Clearing House Operations, normally referred to
as Service Branches
1. Does the branch have a system of periodic review of the outstanding entries in
clearing adjustments accounts? In your view, has the system generally been
complied with?
2. Whether review of the clearing adjustments accounts (inwards / outwards)
reveals any old / large / unusual outstanding entries, which remain
unexplained? Give year-wise break-up of outstanding in number and value.
3. Has the branch strictly followed the guidelines of the controlling authority of the
bank with respect to operations related to clearing transactions? Comment on
the systems and procedures followed by the branch in this regard.
Signature of the Branch Auditor
38