भारतीय �रज़वर् बैंक
RESERVE BANK OF INDIA
RBI/DOR/2025-26/296
DOR.LIC.REC.No.331/07-01-000/2025-26 December 04, 2025
Reserve Bank of India (Rural Co-operative Banks - Branch Authorisation)
Directions, 2025
Table of Contents
Chapter I - Preliminary ...........................................................................................................3
A. Short Title and Commencement ...................................................................................3
B. Applicability ...................................................................................................................3
C. Definitions ......................................................................................................................3
Chapter II - Branch Authorisation ........................................................................................5
A. Eligibility Criteria for Business Authorization (ECBA) ............................................... 5
B. Area of Operation of District Central Co-operative Banks (DCCBs) ......................... 6
C. Opening of a New Place of Business ........................................................................... 6
D. Opening of a branch under Automatic Route ............................................................. 9
E. Opening of a branch under Prior Approval Route .................................................... 10
F. Additional Conditions for StCB for Opening a Branch ............................................. 10
G. Opening of an Extension Counter (EC) ..................................................................... 11
H. Operationalisation of an ATM / CDMs / CRMs .......................................................... 12
I. Shifting of a Place of Business ....................................................................................1 2
J. Closure of a Place of Business ...................................................................................1 3
K. Doorstep Banking Services ........................................................................................1 3
L. Shifting, Acquisition, Surrender of Leased Premises, etc. of Co-operative Banks
not complying with Section 11(1) of BR Act, 1949 (AACS) .......................................... 14
Chapter III - Reporting .........................................................................................................1 5
A. Proforma and Reporting of Bank / Branch Details under the Central Information
System for Banking Infrastructure (CISBI) .................................................................... 15
Chapter IV - Repeal and other Provisions ......................................................................... 17
A. Repeal and saving .......................................................................................................1 7
B. Application of other laws not barred ......................................................................... 17
C. Interpretations ..............................................................................................................1 7
Annex I ..................................................................................................................................1 8
Annex II ................................................................................................................................. 19
Annex III ................................................................................................................................2 3

Annex IV ................................................................................................................................2 5
Annex V ................................................................................................................................. 27
Annex VI ................................................................................................................................3 0
Annex VII ...............................................................................................................................3 3
2

In exercise of the powers conferred by Section 23 read with 56 of the
Banking Regulation Act, 1949, the Reserve Bank of India (‘RBI’) being satisfied that it
is necessary and expedient in the public interest to do so, hereby issues the Directions
hereinafter specified.
Chapter I – Preliminary
A. Short Title and Commencement
1. These Directions shall be called the Reserve Bank of India (Rural Co-operative
Banks - Branch Authorisation) Directions, 2025.
2. These Directions shall come into force with immediate effect.
B. Applicability
3. These Directions shall be applicable to Rural Co-operative Banks (RCBs),
hereinafter collectively referred to as 'banks' and individually as a 'bank'.
In this context, ‘Rural Co-operative Banks’ shall mean State Co-operative Banks
(StCBs) and Central Co-operative Banks (CCBs), as defined in the National
Bank for Agriculture and Rural Development Act, 1981.
C. Definitions
4. In these Directions, unless the context states otherwise, the terms herein shall
bear the meanings assigned to them below:
(1) ‘Area of Operation’ of a bank means the geographical area/s of operation
stated in its byelaws, as approved by the registering authority and the
Reserve Bank.
(2) ‘Administrative Office’ or ‘Controlling Office’ means a corporate,
regional, zonal, or any other office, by whatsoever name called, that
exercises control or oversight functions on Branches / Offices falling under
its jurisdiction and undertakes internal administrative functions including
oversight of bank’s own staff and carries out no banking or business
transactions.
(3) ‘Back Offices’ means a Central Processing Centre (CPC) or an Office, by
whatever name called, that exclusively attends to functions such as data
3

processing, processing of loans, verification and processing of documents,
issuance of cheque books, demand drafts etc. on requests received from
other branches and carries out other functions incidental to banking
business.
5. All other expressions, unless defined herein, shall have the same meaning as
have been assigned to them under the Banking Regulation Act, 1949 or the
Reserve Bank of India Act, 1934 or any statutory modification or re-enactment
thereto, or Glossary of Terms published by RBI or as used in commercial
parlance, as the case may be.
4

Chapter II – Branch Authorisation
A. Eligibility Criteria for Business Authorization (ECBA)
6. Based on a comprehensive review, it has been decided to issue harmonised
eligibility criteria for banks for certain business authorizations / permissions /
approvals. These criteria, as given below, will henceforth be referred to as
Eligibility Criteria for Business Authorization (ECBA).
7. A bank will be considered as fully complying with ECBA if it meets the following
conditions, based on the audited financial statements as of 31st March of the
immediately preceding financial year:
(1) The CRAR should be at least one percentage point above the minimum
CRAR applicable to the bank as on the reference date;
(2) Net NPAs of not more than 3%;
(3) Net profits during the preceding two financial years;
(4) No default in the maintenance of CRR / SLR during the preceding and current
financial year till the time of Board resolution declaring the bank as ECBA
compliant / application for authorization;
(5) Core Banking Solution (CBS) fully implemented; and
(6) The bank should not be under any Directions / Supervisory Action
Framework / PCA of RBI / NABARD, as the case may be, at the time of Board
resolution declaring the bank as ECBA compliant/ application for
authorization;
8. A bank shall determine its compliance with the ECBA every year based on the
audited financial statements as of 31 March of the immediately preceding FY and
place it before its Board within 30 days from the date of adoption of the audit
report. The Board shall satisfy itself about the compliance of the bank with ECBA
and pass the necessary resolution approving the same and inform the Reserve
Bank and NABARD within 15 calendar days from the date of the Board resolution
as per the format given in Annex I. A bank not complying with ECBA need not
inform the Reserve Bank / NABARD in this regard. The period of validity of
compliance with ECBA will be considered to be till 30th September of next FY, or
5

the date the bank is declared non-compliant with ECBA by the supervisor, or till
the date of next self-review, whichever is earlier.
Example: If a bank determines itself to be in compliance with ECBA in August
2025 based on audited figures as of March 31, 2025, it would be considered
compliant with ECBA till September 30, 2026; except in following cases:
(1) It is declared non-compliant with ECBA in the next statutory inspection (a
review will be carried out by the supervisor based on assessed figures as of
March 31, 2025); or
(2) It is declared non-compliant with ECBA (effective from the date of Board
resolution) in the next self-review based on audited figures for the next
financial year (in this case, as of March 31, 2026).
9. The above process is subject to review by the Reserve Bank, including
supervisory review. In case during the supervisory review of NABARD, or even
otherwise, if a bank, which has declared itself compliant with ECBA is found to
be non-compliant, the bank shall be subject to appropriate supervisory and / or
enforcement action as deemed fit by the Reserve Bank, including but not limited
to debarment from self-reviewing itself as ECBA compliant for a period of
minimum of one year.
B. Area of Operation of District Central Co-operative Banks (DCCBs)
10. The area of operation of DCCBs is decided by the State Government concerned
by passing an order to that effect. Any change in the extant area of operation that
takes place due to the splitting / reorganisation of districts is also notified by the
State Government by issuing an order to that effect. Therefore, DCCBs desirous
of amending their area of operation shall approach the Reserve Bank along with
the notification from the State Government, a resolution passed to this effect by
their Board and the amended byelaws registered with Registrar of Co-operative
Societies (RCS). DCCBs do not require NOC from the Reserve Bank for
amendment of byelaws in this regard and may directly approach the Reserve
Bank for amendment in the banking license with the above-mentioned
documents.
C. Opening of a New Place of Business
6

11. Prior permission from the Reserve Bank is required for opening a new place of
business including Branches, Extension Counters, ATMs, Controlling Offices
(Regional / Zonal /Administrative Office), Central Processing Centres, Regional
Collection Centres, Retail Asset Processing Centres, Service Branches, Back
Offices etc. or for changing the location of any existing place of business under
Section 23 of the BR Act, 1949 read with Section 56 thereof. Opening a new place
of business without valid authorization (except in cases permitted by the Reserve
Bank) is a violation of the said Act and is liable for penal action. The reporting of
opening a new place of business shall be as per procedure given in Chapter III of
this Master Direction.
12. The bank should ensure that there are no restrictions imposed by the local
development or other authorities for setting up a commercial establishment in the
locality where the new place of business is proposed to be opened. It is incumbent
upon the bank to ensure that its branches are operating from premises that have
a valid lease agreement and are free of any dispute between the bank and the
landlords of the premises in question.
13. The conditions for opening of a new place of business are as under:
Sr.
Activity Conditions
No.
a) Opening of a Branch Automatic Route: A bank in compliance with ECBA
is allowed to open branches up to 15 per cent of the
number of its full-fledged branches as at the end of the
previous financial year under the automatic route,
without prior approval of the Reserve Bank, subject
to conditions at Para 14 to 19 below.
Prior Approval Route: For opening of branches of
more than 15% allowed under automatic route, banks
which are in compliance with ECBA, may apply for
opening branches by submitting an Annual Business
Plan (ABP), subject to additional conditions at Para 20
to 24.
7

b) Opening of an EC A bank in compliance with ECBA may open ECs
under both automatic route and prior approval route,
subject to additional conditions at para 25 to 28 below.
Automatic Route: A bank has the option to open ECs
in lieu of branches, under automatic route, within the
same overall limit of up to 15 percent of the number of
full-fledged branches.
Prior Approval Route: A bank may apply for opening
ECs by submitting an Annual Business Plan (ABP).
c) Opening of an ATM / • A bank can install on-site ATMs / CDMs / CRMs at
CDM / CRM branches / ECs, without prior approval of the
Reserve Bank, subject to conditions at Para 29
below.
• A bank in compliance with ECBA can install off-site
ATMs / mobile ATMs / CDMs / CRMs within its area
of operation without prior approval of the Reserve
Bank, subject to conditions at Para 29 below.
d) Opening of a Central A bank may open such offices within its area of
Processing Centre, operation as per its business requirements, without
Regional Collection prior approval of the Reserve Bank.
Centre, Retail Asset
Processing Centre,
Service Branch, Back
Office #
e) Opening of a Banks will require prior approval of the Reserve Bank
Controlling Office to open a Controlling Office. The application may be
(Regional / Zonal / submitted as a part of ABP.
Administrative Office)
#
# Such offices should not be involved in business origination. The primary work of
8

these offices is to handle internal processes / functions incidental to their banking
business. The conversion of these offices to a normal branch and vice versa is not
permitted.
D. Opening of a branch under Automatic Route
14. A bank is eligible to open a branch in its area of operation (including the
upgradation of an extension counter that is in operation for more than three years)
under the automatic route subject to the following conditions:
(1) The bank shall be in compliance with ECBA; and
(2) The bank should have sufficient headroom capital (methodology given in Part
C of Annex II).
15. The eligible banks are permitted to open new branches up to 15 per cent of the
number of full-fledged branches (at the end of the previous financial year) in a
financial year (rounded off to the nearest whole number) subject to a minimum of
one branch and maximum of 10 branches without having the need to take
permission from Reserve Bank of India.
16. Branch opening under the automatic route is available only for a bank which has
obtained a valid branch authorization from the Reserve Bank for all its existing
branches.
17. A StCB is permitted to open a branch under automatic route only in the State
capital and one branch in each district, provided there is no other branch of any
DCCB in that district.
18. A DCCB is permitted to open a branch under automatic route only in a centre
having population of minimum one lakh as per latest census.
19. The bank shall put in place a policy for opening branches, approved by its Board
of Directors. While formulating the said policy, the bank shall bear in mind its
financial health, viability of the proposed branches and bank’s ability to render
satisfactory customer service. The policy must be reviewed periodically to keep it
aligned with the evolving banking landscape and revision, if any, in Reserve Bank
guidelines. Further, the bank shall ensure that the proposal for opening of such
branches in a particular financial year, based on the policy, is duly approved by its
Board of Directors.
9

E. Opening of a branch under Prior Approval Route
20. Banks in compliance with ECBA and desirous of opening of branches of more than
15 per cent allowed under automatic route, may apply for opening branches under
the Prior Approval Route by submission of a single Annual Business Plan (ABP)
(format given in Annex II) in a financial year, along with application as per Form V
of the Banking Regulation (Co-operative Societies) Rules, 1966. The bank shall
have a policy as at para 19.
21. ABP for a financial year, should be submitted by the bank well in advance. The
Reserve Bank will process and convey the decision within 90 calendar days of
receipt of the complete application from the bank. The approval granted by the
Reserve Bank for opening the branch will be valid till March 31 of concerned
financial year, by which time the branch must be operationalised, or else the
approval will lapse automatically.
22. The permission for opening of a branch will be strictly in the order of preference
given by the bank. No request for change of order of preference would be
entertained thereafter. Non-operationalisation of at least 75 per cent of approved
branches within permitted time would be viewed seriously and may impact the
approvals in future, including debarment from opening new branches for the next
two years.
F. Additional Conditions for StCB for Opening a Branch
23. In a three-tier structure consisting of StCB at the apex level, DCCB at the
intermediate level and Primary Agricultural Credit Society (PACS) at the ground
level, a StCB will normally be allowed to open branch / extension counter in state
capital only. In case a branch is required in district headquarters, the bank may
open a branch only for maintaining and servicing deposits of co-operative banks.
In semi-urban / rural areas, where DCCB is non-existent, weak or virtually defunct,
StCB may be allowed to open a branch, provided the DCCB in the adjoining district
is not in a position to extend its area of operation to cover the area (where DCCB
is non-existent in the concerned district) or to take over the weak / defunct DCCB
through merger. Such StCB shall clearly justify the reasons for opening each
branch / extension counter while applying under ABP. In a two-tier co-operative
credit structure consisting of StCB and PACS, a StCB may open branch /
10

extension counters in urban as well as rural areas. However, the StCB shall also
clearly justify the reasons for opening each branch / extension counter while
applying under ABP. In all such cases, the recommendations of the RCS of the
state will be required.
24. StCBs registered in the north-eastern states are permitted to open / shift branches
/ ECs anywhere in their area of operation, so long as they continue to function as
the central financing agency extending the area of operation to the entire state.
G. Opening of an Extension Counter (EC)
25. An EC may be opened within the premises of educational institutions, big offices,
factories and hospitals of which the co-operative bank concerned is the principal
banker. The bank shall obtain a declaration from the institution in which it proposes
to open EC in the format as per Annex IV. Other bankers to such entities may also
open an EC provided it is not considered feasible by the principal banker and / or
the base branch of the principal banker is beyond 10 kilometres from the proposed
EC, after obtaining written consent from the principal banker. An EC may also be
opened in the residential colonies provided no other branch / EC is already existing
in the colony and no restrictions have been imposed by the local development or
any other authorities for setting up a commercial establishment in the residential
colony / locality. No extension counter should be opened in a marketplace,
shopping centre, etc. Only one EC is permitted within a premise.
26. Base branch of the bank to which the proposed EC is linked should be within a
distance of 10 kilometres. The transactions carried out in the EC should be
incorporated in the accounts of the base branch on a day-to-day basis.
27. While opening an EC, the bank should take into account important factors such as
need, viability, and overall merits of opening the EC, including the bank’s ability to
deploy adequate resources and exercise internal controls.
28. The facilities at an EC should be restricted to:
(1) deposit / withdrawal transactions;
(2) issue and encashment of drafts and mail transfers;
(3) issue and encashment of travellers' cheques; collection of bills;
(4) advances against fixed deposits of their customers (within the sanctioning
11

power of the officials concerned at the EC);
(5) disbursement of other loans (only for individuals) sanctioned by the Head
Office / base branch up to the limit of ₹10.00 lakh; and
(6) safe deposit locker facility, subject to adequate security arrangements, as
contained in guidelines issued by the Reserve Bank from time to time.
H. Operationalisation of an ATM / CDMs / CRMs
29. A bank may offer all its products and services through the ATM channels, provided
the technology permits and adequate checks are put in place. The business
transacted at the ATM shall be recorded in the books of the respective base branch
/ Centralised Data Centre. Third-party advertisement on the ATM screens, such
as the display of products of other manufacturers / dealers / vendors, is not
permitted. However, the bank may utilize the ATM screens to display their own
products, or products for which it acts as an agent, or customer service / financial
inclusion / cyber safety messages. These guidelines shall also be applicable to
CDMs and CRMs.
I. Shifting of a Place of Business
30. A bank is permitted to shift its branches, extension counters, offices within the
same city, town or village without prior approval of the Reserve Bank. The shifting
of an EC will be subject to the distance of the proposed location being within 10
kilometres from the base branch.
31. The decision to shift a place of business shall be taken by the Board after taking
into account all the relevant factors, including viability, and should be properly
recorded / minuted in the proceedings of the Board meeting.
32. Proper notice should be given to all existing depositors / clients of the branch / EC
through SMS / public notice / letters at least one month in advance of shifting.
33. A bank can shift its off-site ATMs in its area of operation without prior approval of
the Reserve Bank.
34. Closing a branch / EC in one city / town and opening in another shall not be
construed as shifting. However, a bank may shift its office, except Head Office,
from one town / city to another within its area of operation, without prior approval
of the Reserve Bank.
12

35. Splitting of a branch or part shifting of some of the departments of the parent office
/ branch can be made to a nearby location within the same locality / municipal ward
due to space constraints and for better customer service or for convenience of the
members without prior permission of the Reserve Bank, subject to the condition
that there is no overlap in business conducted from both the premises.
J. Closure of a Place of Business
36. A bank is allowed to close its branches / extension counters / ATMs / offices,
except the Head Office, without prior approval of the Reserve Bank. Closure of a
branch / extension counter shall be subject to the following conditions:
(1) The bank should not have been placed under any Directions under section
35A of the Banking Regulation Act, 1949 (AACS).
(2) The decision to close down the branch / EC should be taken by the Board after
taking into account all the relevant factors and should be properly noted in the
official record of proceedings of the Board meeting.
(3) The bank should give two months' notice in advance to all existing depositors
/ clients of the branch, including through press releases in leading local
newspapers, as well as communicate to each constituent of the branch well in
advance of the closure of the branch.
(4) The bank should report to the Reserve Bank, as per the timeline (reporting
format given in Annex III), along with copies of the Board resolution.
(5) The bank should surrender the branch license in original, wherever applicable,
to the Reserve Bank within 15 calendar days of closing the branch.
(6) The bank should preserve all the relevant records and make them available to
the Reserve Bank / NABARD for scrutiny.
K. Doorstep Banking Services
37. A bank may provide doorstep banking services to its customers on a voluntary
basis, without prior approval of the Reserve Bank.
38. The bank may formulate a scheme for providing doorstep banking services to its
customers, with the approval of their Boards, in accordance with the guidelines
provided in Annex V. The details of the scheme may be informed to the Reserve
13

Bank within 15 calendar days of implementing the scheme.
39. A bank having deposit of more than ₹1000 crore as on March 31 of previous
financial year may offer doorstep banking services to customers either directly
through its own employees or through agents. Other banks shall offer doorstep
banking services only through their permanent employees. The bank shall take
into account the various risks that may arise on account of offering Doorstep
Banking Services, such as outsourcing risk, operational risk, reputational risk, etc.,
to customers either directly through its own employees or through agents and take
all necessary steps to manage the same.
40. The operation of the scheme may be reviewed by the Board of the bank on an
annual basis.
L. Shifting, Acquisition, Surrender of Leased Premises, etc. of Co-operative
Banks not complying with Section 11(1) of BR Act, 1949 (AACS)
41. A bank not complying with provisions of section 11 (1) of the Banking Regulation
Act, 1949 (AACS) is required to obtain prior approval of the Reserve Bank for:
(1) Sale of bank's own premises;
(2) Surrender of existing premises taken on lease / rental basis;
(3) Acquisition of new premises on ownership or lease / rental basis; and
(4) Shifting of offices / departments as a result of sale of premises / surrender of
premises / acquisition of new premises.
42. Banks are required to obtain approval from the Reserve Bank by submitting the
application through PRAVAAH portal as per the enclosed format given in Annex
VII. The bank should not enter into any firm commitment to the acquisition of
premises for shifting an office thereat until the Reserve Bank's prior approval has
been obtained. Therefore, if a bank has inadvertently made any such commitment,
it should, in its own interest, take steps to cancel or nullify it. Reserve Bank will not
consider any request for reconsidering its decision in such cases on the grounds
that the bank has already acquired the premises or entered into an agreement for
the same.
14

Chapter III – Reporting
A. Proforma and Reporting of Bank / Branch Details under the Central
Information System for Banking Infrastructure (CISBI)
43. The CISBI portal (https://cisbi.rbi.org.in) has been web-deployed by the Reserve
Bank. Under this system, banks are required to submit their information in a
single Proforma (Annex I of CISBI) online on the CISBI portal. The instructions
for submission of Proforma online are given in Annex II of CISBI. The CISBI
portal contains the relevant circulars, user manuals and other relevant
documents to facilitate reporting.
44. The Reserve Bank has provided login credentials to Nodal Officers of banks for
submitting their information in CISBI. Access to CISBI can also be sought by
making an e-mail request at cisbi@rbi.org.in. Banks should submit information on
the CISBI portal as per guidelines given in Annex VI, and thereafter, bank branch
/ office / NAIO / CSP codes would be allotted by CISBI after due validations. In
case of status change, banks need to edit only the relevant part. All banks should
submit immediately and, in any case, not later than seven calendar days, the
information relating to the opening, closure, merger, shifting and conversion of
bank branches / offices / NAIOs / CSPs online through the CISBI portal.
45. Further, in order to ensure the correctness of data on CISBI, in the last week of
every month, banks shall generate a 'NIL Report' in CISBI for the position as on
last day of the previous month, indicating the total number of functioning branches,
offices, NAIOs, CSPs; and submit it through CISBI after authenticating its
correctness. Banks can also use the facility to access / download the data related
to them.
46. It is further advised that CISBI also has a provision to maintain complete bank-
level details (example, bank category, bank group, bank code, type of license
issued, registration details, area of operation, addresses of offices, contact details
of senior officials, etc.) and history of all the changes with a time stamp. After
gaining first-time access to the system, banks shall ensure to submit correct and
updated bank-level information in all the fields where submission / updation rights
are available with the bank. After the initial submission of information on the CISBI
portal, a one-time confirmation stating that "correct and updated Bank level
15

information has been submitted on CISBI" shall be sent by banks to the Regional
Office concerned of the Reserve Bank. Any subsequent changes in the bank-level
information shall be submitted for updation on the CISBI portal on an immediate
basis by the banks. The banks shall enter the complete and clear (without
abbreviations) particulars on the Banking Channel Name, Address, geotagging,
etc.
47. Reporting Timeline: Reporting on the CISBI portal within the prescribed time of
seven calendar days, shall be ensured by the bank. Any instance for which a prior
approval of the Reserve Bank is not required for any authorisation in terms of these
Directions, the bank shall report such event / changes to the Reserve Bank within
15 calendar days (reporting format given in Annex III). Non-receipt of information
/ particulars within the prescribed time or furnishing of incorrect / partial information
by the bank (including reporting on the CISBI portal) would be viewed seriously
and the bank would be liable for penal action, including debarment from opening
a new place of business for up to next three years.
48. Point of contact for application / submission of information: The point of contact
for all matters related to this Direction shall be Regional Office of NABARD which,
in turn, shall forward the applications to the Regional Office of the Reserve Bank,
along with their comments and recommendations on the matter. An advance
copy of the application has to be sent to the concerned Regional Office of the
Reserve Bank.
Note: Banks shall submit their applications to the Reserve Bank using relevant
application forms in the PRAVAAH portal (https://pravaah.rbi.org.in).
16

Chapter IV – Repeal and other Provisions
A. Repeal and saving
49. With the issue of these Directions, Reserve Bank of India (Rural Co-operative
Banks – Branch Authorisation) Directions, 2025 dated November 28, 2025
stands repealed. The Directions, instructions, and guidelines repealed prior to
the issuance of these Directions shall continue to remain repealed.
50. Notwithstanding such repeal, any action taken or purported to have been taken,
or initiated under the repealed Directions, instructions, or guidelines shall
continue to be governed by the provisions thereof. All approvals or
acknowledgments granted under these repealed lists shall be deemed as
governed by these Directions.
B. Application of other laws not barred
51. The provisions of these Directions shall be in addition to, and not in derogation
of the provisions of any other laws, rules, regulations, or directions, for the time
being in force.
C. Interpretations
52. For the purpose of giving effect to the provisions of these Directions or in order
to remove any difficulties in the application or interpretation of the provisions of
these Directions, the RBI may, if it considers necessary, issue necessary
clarifications in respect of any matter covered herein and the interpretation of any
provision of these Directions given by the RBI shall be final and binding.
(Manoranjan Padhy)
Chief General Manager
17

Annex I
Report on Compliance to Eligibility Criteria for Business Authorization (ECBA)
Name of the bank:
Based on audited / assessed financial statements (Tick one) for financial year _____
Sl. Compliance
Particulars As on March 31
No. Status (Yes / No)
CRAR should be at least one percentage point
1
above the minimum CRAR applicable
2 Net NPAs of not more than 3%
3 Net Profit during the last two financial years
No default in the maintenance of CRR / SLR during the
preceding and current financial year till the time of Board
4
resolution declaring the bank as ECBA compliant / application
for authorization
5 CBS fully implemented in the bank
Whether the bank is under Directions / Supervisory Action
6
Framework / PCA
7 Details, if any, of prohibition for any authorization by RBI / NABARD
Enclosures:
1. A copy of the Board resolution on the compliance with ECBA
2. A copy of the audited financials
18

Annex II
Annual Business Plan
A. Profile of the bank
Data as on
Sl. March 31 of
Particulars
No. preceding
financial year
1. Name and address of the bank
2. License No. and date of license (copy of license to be attached)
3. Area of Operation (a copy of relevant extract from the byelaws
of the bank to be attached)
4. Whether bank has an elected Board of Directors?
5. Bank Type Scheduled /
Non-Scheduled
6. Bank Deposits (₹ crore)
7. No. of existing branches / extension counters
(List as per CISBI portal to be annexed)
8. Have all the existing branches / ECs / ATMs / Offices etc. been
reported on CISBI portal? (Yes / No)
9. Details of any place of business (branch / EC / ATM / Office etc.)
for which valid authorization from the Reserve Bank has not
been obtained under section 23 of BR Act, 1949 (AACS)
19

B. Board Resolution format approving the plan of action for opening branches
Name of the bank:
1. Medium term policy for branch expansion programme: Bank may furnish details of
the proposed medium-term policy for its branch expansion for a period of 3 years along
with expected level of business in the next 3 years in terms of deposits and advances.
2. Details of proposed new branches
Name of the centre Name of the Members at the proposed
Population
with address and Pin district and centre (only for Salary Earners’
of the centre
code state Banks)
Note: Reasons for the proposed branch including adequacy of banking facilities at the
centre, business prospects at the proposed place of business within 12 months (an
estimate of minimum business which the bank expects to attract) may be submitted.
A viability study report (as per proforma given below) for the proposed branch
containing the potential available in the area, estimate of income and expenditure and
likely period of break-even etc. may be submitted.
No. of Population Deposits Advances
Name of centre Population bank expected
1st 2nd 3rd 1st 2nd 3rd
and district of centre branches to be
year year year Year Year Year
at centre served
Estimated Income Estimated Expenditure Profit/Loss
1st 2nd 3rd
1st year 2nd year 3rd year 1st year 2nd year 3rd year
year year year
3. Whether any current Director and / or their family members have any interest in the
20

leased / rented / acquired premises used / proposed to be used by the bank. If yes,
details thereof may be submitted (attach extra sheet if necessary).
4. Details of branches proposed and opened under previous three Annual Business
Plans
Branches Details of branches
Branches Branches
Financial operationalised not operationalised
proposed by approved by the
Year within stipulated within stipulated
the bank Reserve Bank
time time*
* Please furnish reasons of not opening the approved branches within stipulated time
along with a copy of communication with the Reserve Bank on the matter, if any.
5. Details of branches proposed and opened under Automatic Route in last two
financial years and the current financial year.
Financial Name of Complete Address of Branch Opening Date of Reporting
Year Branch Branch Date on CISBI Portal
21

C. Steps for arriving at Headroom in terms of Net Worth per Branch for
Allotment of Branches
No. of Branches (₹ in crore)
Net Worth* as on March 31st of 20XX XX a
No. of Branches as on March 31 XX x
Add: No. of Branches allotted but not yet
XX y
opened
Total (x + y) XX b
Headroom capital utilised @ ₹ 2 crore per branch (b x 2) XX c
Available Headroom for allotment of branches during next
XX d
FY (a-c)
No. of Branches proposed XX z
Available headroom after allotment of proposed branches
XX
@ ₹ 2 crore per branch [d- (z x 2)]
* As per latest available assessed/ audited figures
22

Annex III
Reporting of opening / shifting / closing of a branch / EC / office / ATM where
prior approval of the Reserve Bank is not required
Sl.
Data Field Response
No.
1 Name of bank
2 Address of bank
3 Banking license number and date of license
(a copy to be attached)
4 Area of operation (copy of relevant section
of the byelaws to be attached)
5 Date of passing of the resolution declaring
the bank in compliance with ECBA (a copy
of the Board Resolution to be attached)*
6 Total number of branches (at the end of
previous financial year as per Audited
annual report)
7 Has valid authorization from the Reserve
Bank been obtained for all the existing
branches? If no, details thereof.
8 Nature of action (opening / shifting / closing
/ splitting)
9 Date of action
10 Date of passing of Board Resolution (a copy
of the Board Resolution to be attached)*
11 Type of place of business (branch / EC /
office / ATM)
12 Current address of place of business*
13 Details of base branch (in case of ECs /
ATMs)*
14 Old / original address and opening date of
23

place of business (in case of closing /
shifting / splitting) *
15 Date of reporting on CISBI portal (please
report on CISBI portal before sending this
annexure)
16 Whether any current Director and / or their
family members have any interest in the
leased / rented / acquired premises used by
bank. If yes, details thereof (attach extra
sheet if necessary).
Note: Separate statements may be submitted for each action.
* Please Strike out items which are not relevant.
24

Annex IV
Format of declaration of the institution in the premises of which the Extension
Counter is to be opened
Date:
1. We have requested ______________________________ to open its extension
(Name of the bank)
counter in the premises of ____________________________________________
(Name and full address) of the institution)
for the benefit of the following persons attached to the above institution.@
∗ Workers ……………………..)
∗ Staff / Employees ……………)
Please indicate actual numbers
∗ Students …………………….)
∗ Teachers ……………………)
@ (where there is more than one institution being managed by the authority issuing
this letter which are also to be benefited by the extension counter, the names of these
institutions, their distance from the proposed location of the extension counter, the
number of students / staffs, etc. attached separately to each of the institutions, the
name and the distance of their bankers should also be indicated separately.)
∗ Strike out whichever is not applicable.
2. (a) _____________________________________________________________
(Name of the bank and place)
is our principal banker.
We also deal with the following bankers (give names of bankers and their distance
from the institution)
25

1. ______________________________________
2. ______________________________________
3. ______________________________________
(b) Extent of our Accounts with the principal banker and other bankers as on
_______________20__
(Latest position please)
Name of the Bank Type of account/s Amount (₹ crore)
maintained
1.
2.
3. We undertake to provide necessary accommodation for the extension counter within
the premises of our institution (mentioned at Sr. No.1 above)
4. We have no objection to the bank to provide safe deposit lockers and allow outsiders
also to have access to the extension counter.
5. If the extension counter is allowed to a bank other than the principal banker, the
reasons therefor.
6. Whether a similar letter to any other banker for the purpose has been issued.
(Signature of Competent Authority
on behalf of the institution mentioning
designation and seal, if any)
26

Annex V
Conditions related to Doorstep Banking Services
Services to be offered
1. Eligible banks can voluntarily offer the following banking services to individual
customers / natural persons at their doorstep: -
a) Pick up of cash against receipt;
b) Pick up of payment instruments against receipt;
c) Delivery of demand drafts against withdrawal from account;
d) Delivery of cash against withdrawal from account either against cheque
received at the counter or request received through any secured convenient
channel, such as phone banking, internet banking, etc;
e) Submission of Know Your Customer (KYC) documents;
f) Submission of Life Certificate.
2. The banks which offer services of pick-up of cash shall take suitable steps to
educate their employees and agents to enable them to detect forged and mutilated
notes so as to avoid frauds and disputes with customers.
3. Mode of Delivery:
a) Through own employees
b) Through Agents (permitted only for a bank having deposits over ₹1000
crore)
4. Where banks engage the services of Agents for delivery of services, it should be
ensured that the policy approved by the Board lays down the broad principles for
selection of agents and payment of fee / commission etc. Banks must refer to the
guidelines on Reserve Bank of India (Rural Co-operative Banks – Managing Risks in
Outsourcing) Directions, 2025 and ensure that the principles enumerated therein are
complied with while offering Doorstep Banking Services.
5. Delivery process
a) Cash collected from the customer should be acknowledged by issuing a receipt
on behalf of the bank;
27

b) Cash collected from the customer should be credited to the customer’s account
on the same day or next working day, depending on the time of collection;
c) At the time of collection of cash, the customer should be informed of the date
of credit by issuing a suitable advice;
d) Delivery of demand draft should be done by debit to the account on the basis
of requisition in writing / cheque received and not against cash or instruments
collected at the doorstep;
e) Acknowledgment should be provided for collection of KYC documents, Life
Certificate.
Risk Management
6. It shall be ensured that the agreement entered into with the customer does not entail
any legal or financial liability on the bank for failure to offer doorstep services under
circumstances beyond its control. The services should be seen as a mere extension
of banking services offered at the branch and the liability of the bank should be the
same as if the transactions were conducted at the branch. The agreement should not
provide any right to the customer to claim the services at his doorstep.
7. The bank should provide cash limits (for collection as well as delivery) for their
employees / agents and customers, for doorstep banking. The bank should also take
all necessary steps to contain technology risk while providing these services.
Transparency
8. Charges, if any, to be levied on the customer for doorstep services should be
incorporated in the policy approved by the Board and should form part of the
agreement entered into with the customer. The charges should be prominently
indicated on the banks’ website and brochures offering doorstep services.
9. Other conditions
a) Banks shall ensure compliance with the Reserve Bank of India (Rural Co-
operative Banks – Know Your Customer) Directions, 2025 with regard to
customer identification procedures while offering doorstep services to their
customers.
28

b) The services should be offered at either the residence or office of the customer
as opted by the customer, the address of which should be clearly and explicitly
mentioned in the agreement.
c) The agreement / contract with the customer shall clearly specify that the bank
will be responsible for the acts of omission and commission of its ‘agent’.
d) Banks shall keep in view the restrictions imposed by Section 10 (1) (b) (ii) of
the Banking Regulation Act, 1949, while making payments for the services
outsourced.
10. Redressal of Grievance
a) Banks should constitute an appropriate Grievance Redressal Machinery
internally for redressing complaints about services rendered by its employees /
agents. The name and telephone number of the designated Grievance
Redressal Officer of the bank should be made available to the customers
including on the bank’s website. The designated officer should ensure that
genuine grievances of customers are redressed promptly.
b) If a customer feels that his complaint has not been satisfactorily addressed, he
will have the option to approach the RBI Ombudsman for redressal of
grievances.
29

Annex VI
Guidelines for Banks on the use of CISBI
The Department of Statistics and Information Management (DSIM), Reserve Bank of
India is the nodal department for CISBI and co-ordinates with other the Reserve Bank
departments, banks, other financial institutions and stakeholders.
2. Under this system, information related to Bank, Branches, Office, NAIOs, other fixed
customer service points (CSPs) (e.g., ATMs, etc.) must be submitted in CISBI. For
accessing CISBI, each bank is allotted two types of user IDs: (i) “Bank Admin ID” and
(ii) “Bank User ID”. the Reserve Bank (DSIM-BBSD) will create single “Bank Admin
ID” for each bank, who in turn would create multiple “Bank User IDs”. Banks can
update information related to their bank by using “Bank Admin ID” and can report new
branches / offices / NAIOs / CSPs or can report any change in status / address, closure
/ merger / conversion / relocation / upgradation, etc. of existing branches / offices /
NAIOs / CSPs by using both the IDs. However, only “Bank Admin ID’ (and not “Bank
User ID”) can make changes in the information related to their Bank.
3. All the banks are required to submit the above information in CISBI which will be
validated and published by the Reserve Bank. For getting “Bank Admin ID”, a bank
should provide an authorised email ID on which the Reserve Bank can forward “Bank
Admin ID” and its password in two different emails. A new bank seeking reporting
access to CISBI, should contact the Reserve Bank with a request letter providing
details of the bank’s nodal person, an email ID for receiving the login credentials and
certain basic documents as under:
a) Certificate of incorporation from the Registrar of Co-operative Societies /
Central Registrar of Co-operative Societies.
b) License / Authorization to carry on banking business from the Reserve Bank.
c) A letter of commencement of business in India.
d) The Press release by the Reserve Bank regarding commencement of business.
e) A copy of registered Bye Laws.
4. Based on the documents, as mentioned above, the Reserve Bank will open an
account of the bank in CISBI system by filling its “Basic Details” in the system.
30

5. System will generate the “Bank Admin ID” and will automatically send email
notification of “Bank Admin ID” and its Password (in two separate emails) on the
designated email ID of the bank.
6. Bank should login on the CISBI portal (https://cisbi.rbi.org.in) using its allotted “Bank
Admin ID” and change the allotted password on the first login.
7. Bank should fill all other information pertaining to the bank and submit on the CISBI
portal. the Reserve Bank will validate and publish the information in CISBI.
8. After submission of the complete information related to the bank, CISBI will generate
Bank-Code and Bank Working Code.
9. After getting the Bank / Bank Working Code, the bank can create “Bank User ID”
for its internal users. Management of “Bank User ID” will remain the responsibility of
the bank.
10. Banks can submit the information related to their new branch/office/NAIOs/CSPs
as per the proforma by login through “Bank Admin ID” or “Bank User ID”.
11. For reporting any change in the existing information, banks should edit the existing
information and indicate the effective date of change.
12. Banks can also use the facility to access/ download the data relating to them.
13. “Instructions for Filling Proforma” are given in Annex II of CISBI.
14. Banks must reset the password every three months. In case the password expires,
or it is forgotten, they can login on CISBI and (a) Use “Bank Admin ID” to reset the
password for Bank User ID” and (b) contact CISBI helpdesk for resetting the password
of “Bank Admin ID”.
15. All the changes will be reflected in the system and accordingly will go in the
database only after the approval of the Reserve Bank.
16. Nil Report: Nil report will show the status of the bank in CISBI, i.e., total number of
functioning branches / offices / NAIOs / other fixed customer service points (CSPs)
(ATMs etc.) as on last day of the month as well as opened / closed during the month.
Report will be generated from CISBI itself and banks will authenticate that the
information in CISBI is correct and updated. If a bank finds any difference in the “Nil
Report” generated by CISBI and the actual status, it should first update the information
31

in CISBI, then generate “Nil Report” and submit it through CISBI. (No hard copy is
required).
17. In the last week of every month, banks shall generate ‘NIL Report’ for position as
on last day of previous month, authenticate it and submit on CISBI. For example, ‘NIL
Report’ for the month of June 2025 shall be generated and submitted in the last week
of July 2025.
32

Annex VII
Information to be furnished by a bank not complying with provisions of section
11 (1) of the Banking Regulation Act, 1949 (AACS) for obtaining prior approval of
the Reserve Bank for shifting of its offices, sale / surrendering of existing
premises or for acquisition of new premises on ownership / leased rental basis
A. Profile of the bank
(i) Name of the bank
(ii)(a) Address of the Head Office / Administrative
office
(iii) Registered address of the bank
Total No. of offices
B. Financial position of the bank for last three financial years
(₹ crore)
March March March
20 20 20
(i) Share capital
(ii) Reserve Fund (please furnish details of various
funds)
(iii) Deposits
(iv) Borrowings
(v) Loans and advances
(vi) Gross NPA (amount and % up to two decimal)
(vii) Net NPA (amount and % up to two decimal)
(viii) CRAR (% up to two decimal)
(ix) Net Profit (+) / Loss (-)
(x) Audit classification
C. Sale of owned premises / surrendering of existing premises taken on lease / rental
basis
(i) Address of the premises proposed to be sold /
surrendered
(ii) Market value / present rent/lease fee
(iii) Total floor space
33

(iv) Whether any of the bank’s board members or their
relatives or office bearers have financial interest in
leased / rented premises
(v) The reasons for selling / surrendering
D. Acquisition of new premises on ownership / lease/ rental basis
(i) Name and address of the premises
(ii) Name and address of owners from whom premises
/ property is to be purchased / taken on lease or rental
basis
(iii) Estimated cost / amount of lease or rent / taxes etc.
(iv) Total floor space
(v) Whether any of the bank’s board members or their
relatives or office bearers have financial interest in
proposed premises
E. In case the sale / purchase of the premises at C&D above involves shifting of bank’s
office
(i) Name and address of the premises from which
office / departments is/are proposed to be shifted.
(ii) Licence No. / Permission for opening the above
offices / department
(iii) (a) Name and address of the premises to which
above office / department is / are proposed to be
shifted.
(b) Total floor space of the new premises.
(iv) Distance between the premises at (i) and (iii)
above.
(v) Whether all departments / entire office of the bank
presently functioning at address at (i) above are / is
proposed to be shifted.
(vi) If answer at (v) is “no”, please indicate –
(a) Name of all departments / offices functioning at
existing premises.
(b) The departments which will continue to function at
34

the existing place after proposed shifting
(vii) Reasons for shifting (please enclose supporting
documents)
F. In case of proposed shifting of Head Office/Administrative Office
(i) Will the bank’s registered address also be changed
or not?
(ii) Will the bank’s byelaw need amendment?
(Please enclose a copy of the byelaws)
Date:
Signature___________________________
35