भारतीय �रज़वर् बैंक
RESERVE BANK OF INDIA
RBI/DOR/2025-26/325
DOR.CRE.REC.244/07-02-007/2025-26 November 28, 2025
Reserve Bank of India (All India Financial Institutions – Credit Risk Management)
Directions, 2025 (Updated as on July 01, 2026)
Table of Contents
Chapter I - Preliminary .................................................................................................. 2
Chapter II - Board Approved Policies .......................................................................... 8
Chapter II-A – Credit Risk Evaluation .......................................................................... 9
Chapter III - [Deleted] .................................................................................................. 10
Chapter IIIA - Regulatory Restrictions ....................................................................... 11
Chapter IV - Legal Entity Identifier (LEI) for Borrowers ........................................... 16
Chapter V - Filing of Security Interest relating to Immovable (other than equitable
mortgage), Movable, and Intangible Assets in CERSAI ........................................... 18
Chapter VI - Working Capital Finance and Revolving Facility ................................. 20
Chapter VII - Repeal and other provisions ................................................................ 21

Introduction
All India Financial Institutions (AIFIs), in the course of financial intermediation, are
exposed to various financial and non-financial risks, of which credit risk is the one of the
most significant risks. If not managed effectively, credit risk may have ramifications for a
range of other risk categories too. As credit exposures of AIFIs encompass varied sectors,
borrower types and products with their own idiosyncratic complexities as well as systemic
implications due to interconnectedness among themselves, credit risk management of
AIFIs involve a range of prudential tools, including statutory and regulatory restrictions /
prohibitions on certain activities. Recognising this, the Reserve Bank has, from time to
time, issued guidelines to strengthen credit risk management practices.
Accordingly, in exercise of the powers conferred by section 45L of the Reserve Bank of
India Act, 1934 and all other provisions / laws enabling the Reserve Bank of India
(hereinafter called the Reserve Bank) in this regard, Reserve Bank being satisfied that it
is necessary and expedient in the public interest so to do, hereby issues these Directions
hereinafter specified.
Chapter I - Preliminary
A. Short title and Commencement
1. These Directions shall be called the Reserve Bank of India (All India Financial
Institutions – Credit Risk Management) Directions, 2025.
2. These Directions shall come into effect immediately upon issuance.
B. Applicability
3. These Directions shall be applicable to All India Financial Institutions ((hereinafter
collectively referred to as ‘AIFIs’ and individually as an ‘AIFI’) viz. Export Import
Bank of India (‘EXIM Bank’), National Bank for Agriculture and Rural Development
(NABARD), Small Industries Development Bank of India (SIDBI), National
Housing Bank (NHB), and National Bank for Financing Infrastructure and
Development (NaBFID).
2

C. Definitions
4. (1) In these Directions, unless the context otherwise requires,
(i) ‘Bank Guarantee’ shall mean financial and performance guarantees issued by
banks on behalf of their clients. A financial guarantee assures payment of money
in the event of non-fulfilment of contractual obligations by the client. A performance
guarantee provides assurance of compensation if there is delayed or inadequate
performance on a contract. A deferred payment guarantee assures payment of
instalments due to a supplier of goods.
(ii) ‘Bills Purchased and Discounted’ shall mean negotiable instruments that give the
holder the right to receive stated fixed sums on demand or at a fixed or determinable
future time. When a bank negotiates a bill payable on demand (sight bill) and
provides funds to the holder, at a fee/ interest, the facility is referred to as bill
purchase. When a bank negotiates bill payable after a usance i.e., at a fixed or
determinable future time (usance bill) and provides funds to the holder, at a discount,
the facility is referred to as bill discounting. Bills purchased and discounted can be
Inland Bills and Foreign Bills. Inland Bills are Bills of Exchange drawn in India and
paid in India to a person in India.
1[(iia) Committee on lending to related parties’ shall mean a committee established
by the Board of the AIFI specifically to deal with lending to related parties. AIFIs may
also identify any existing Committee, other than the Audit Committee, for this
purpose.
(iib) ‘Contract or arrangement’ shall have the same meaning as specified in Section
188(1)(a) to (g) of the Companies Act, 2013.
(iic) ‘Control’ shall have the same meaning as assigned to it under Section 2(27) of
the Companies Act, 2013.
1Inserted with effect from April 01, 2026 vide Reserve Bank of India (All India Financial Institutions – Credit Risk
Management) – Amendment Directions, 2026 dated January 05, 2026.
3

(iid) ‘Director of an AIFI’ or ‘any other entity’ shall mean a director appointed / elected
to the Board of the entity and would include a nominee director and an independent
director.
(iie) ‘Entity’ in the context of a ‘related party’ shall mean a ‘person’ other than an
individual and a Hindu Undivided Family.
(iif) ‘Key Managerial Personnel (KMP)’ of a AIFI shall have the same meaning as
defined in Section 2(51) of the Companies Act, 2013.
(iig) ‘Lending’ in the context of a ‘related party’ shall mean extending funded or/ and
non-fund-based credit facilities to related parties. While investments in debt
instruments of related parties shall be covered for this purpose, equity investments
shall be excluded.]
(iii) ‘Letter of Credit (LC)’ shall mean any arrangement how so ever named or
described, that is irrevocable and thereby constitutes a definite undertaking of the
issuing bank to honour a complying presentation. An LC confirmed by a bank
based and operating in another country is payable by the confirming bank.
2[(iiia) ‘Person’ shall have the same meaning as assigned to it under Section 3(23) of
Part I of Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code (IBC), 2016.
(iiib) ‘Personal Loan’ shall have the same meaning as defined under Banking
Statistics (Harmonised Definitions)
(iiic) ‘Promoter’ shall have the same meaning as assigned to it under Section 2(69) of
the Companies Act, 2013.
(iiid) ‘Reciprocally Related Person’ means an individual who is either (i) a director
(excluding independent director / Nominee director appointed by the Government or
2Inserted with effect from April 01, 2026 vide Reserve Bank of India (All India Financial Institutions – Credit Risk
Management) – Amendment Directions, 2026 dated January 05, 2026.
4

RBI or a statutory body) of another commercial bank, or an AIFI, or a scheduled
cooperative bank, or a subsidiary of a commercial bank; or (ii) a trustee of a mutual
fund or an alternate investment fund established by any of the aforesaid regulated
entities; or (iii) a relative of such a director or a trustee.
(iiie) Related Party’ with respect to an AIFI shall mean a related person, a reciprocally
related person, or any of the following entities:
(a) where a related person or a reciprocally related person is a partner, manager,
KMP, director or a promoter; or
(b) where a related person or a reciprocally related person is a shareholder with
more than ten per cent of paid-up equity share capital; or
(c) where a related person or a reciprocally related person is having control, whether
singly or jointly with another person; or
(d) where a related person or a reciprocally related person controls more than twenty
per cent of voting rights on account of ownership or through a voting agreement
or through any other arrangement; or
(e) where a related person or a reciprocally related person has the power to
nominate a director to its Board; or
(f) which is accustomed to act on the advice, direction, or instruction of a related
person or a reciprocally related person; or
(g) where a related person or a reciprocally related person is a guarantor or a surety;
or
(h) where a related person or a reciprocally related person is a trustee or an author
or a beneficiary and where the entity is in the form of a private trust.
(i) which is related to the related person or a reciprocally related person as a
subsidiary or a parent company or a holding company or an associate or a joint
venture.
Provided that, nothing in sub-clause (e) above shall apply in cases where the authority to
nominate a director arises exclusively from a lending or financing arrangement.
5

Provided further that, nothing in sub-clause (f) above shall apply to the advice, directions
or instructions given in a professional capacity.
Provided further that, Government of India / State Government-owned or controlled
entities shall not be treated as related parties to a AIFI just by virtue of the fact that the
Government has the common ownership or control of such entities.
(iiif) ‘Related Person’ with respect to an AIFI shall mean a person, and the relatives of
such a person, where the person:
(a) is either a promoter, or a director, or a KMP of the AIFI; or
(b) owns more than five per cent of paid-up equity share capital of the AIFI or can,
either singly or jointly, exercise more than five per cent of the voting rights of the
AIFI on account of either ownership or voting agreement or through
shareholders’ agreement or through any other arrangement; or
(c) can, through an agreement with the AIFI, nominate a director to its Board; or
(d) is either singly or jointly, in control of the AIFI;]
(iv) 3[‘Relative’ with regard to a natural person shall have the same meaning as defined
in Section 2(77) of the Companies Act, 2013 and rules framed therein.]
4[(iva) ‘Specified employees’ mean all employees of an AIFI who are positioned up to two
levels below the Board and any employee designated as such as per the AIFI’s policy.]
(v) 5[Substantial interest’ shall have the same meaning as assigned to it in Section 5(ne)
of the Banking Regulation Act, 1949.]
(2) All other expressions unless defined herein shall have the same meaning as have
been assigned to them under the Banking Regulation Act, 1949, or the Reserve Bank of
3Substituted with effect from April 01, 2026 vide Reserve Bank of India (All India Financial Institutions – Credit Risk
Management) – Amendment Directions, 2026 dated January 05, 2026.
4 Inserted with effect from April 01, 2026 vide Reserve Bank of India (All India Financial Institutions – Credit Risk
Management) – Amendment Directions, 2026 dated January 05, 2026.
5Substituted with effect from April 01, 2026 vide Reserve Bank of India (All India Financial Institutions – Credit Risk
Management) – Amendment Directions, 2026 dated January 05, 2026.
6

India Act, 1934 and rules / regulations made thereunder, or any statutory modification or
re-enactment thereto or in other relevant regulations issued by the Reserve Bank, or
Glossary of Terms published by Reserve Bank or as used in commercial parlance, as the
case may be.
7

Chapter II - Board Approved Policies
5. 6[An AIFI shall put in place a comprehensive Board approved policy on Credit Risk
Management. The policy shall, inter-alia, cover aspects related to lending to related
parties, legal entity identifier (LEI), filing of security interest, and restrictions on
revolving credit facilities. The afore-mentioned specific aspects and other areas of
concern which need to be addressed in such policies are also detailed in the relevant
paragraphs of these Directions.]
6Substituted with effect from April 01, 2026 vide Reserve Bank of India (All India Financial Institutions – Credit Risk
Management) – Amendment Directions, 2026 dated January 05, 2026.
8

7[
Chapter II-A – Credit Risk Evaluation
5A. Credit assessments carried out by a AIFI shall suitably factor in the possible impact
of calamities on borrowers who may be impacted by such events.]
7 Inserted with effect from July 01, 2026, vide Reserve Bank of India (All India Financial Institutions – Credit Risk
Management) Second Amendment Directions, 2026 dated April 29, 2026.
9

8[
Chapter III - [Deleted]
6. *****
7. *****
8. *****
9. *****
10. *****
11. *****
12. *****
13. *****
14. *****
15. *****
16. *****
17. *****]
8 Deleted with effect from April 01, 2026 vide Reserve Bank of India (All India Financial Institutions – Credit Risk
Management) – Amendment Directions, 2026 dated January 05, 2026.
10

9[
Chapter IIIA - Regulatory Restrictions
A. Advances against AIFI’s Own Shares
17A. An AIFI cannot grant any loans and advances on the security of its own shares.
B. Advances to AIFI’s Directors
17B. In order to obviate the possibility of conflict of interest in the lending operations of
the AIFIs, an AIFI shall not:
(1) enter into any commitment for granting any loan or advance to or on behalf of:
(i) any of its directors, or
(ii) any firm in which any of its directors is interested as Partner, Manager, Employee
or Guarantor, or
(iii) any company (not being a subsidiary of the AIFI or a company registered under
Section 8 of the Companies Act, 2013 or a Government Company) of which, or the
subsidiary or the holding company of which, any of the Directors of the AIFI is a
director, managing agent, manager, employee or guarantor or in which he holds
substantial interest, or
(iv) any individual in respect of whom any of its directors is a partner or a guarantor.
17C. Provisions of paragraph 17B above would not apply in the following cases:
(1) Credit facilities granted or commitment made by an AIFI to a company where a director
of the AIFI has substantial interest, if the advance was granted, or commitment was made,
prior to the appointment of the said director on the Board of the AIFI.
Provided that, till the director relinquishes the directorship of either the AIFI or the
company, the AIFI shall not further renew such a facility on or after its contracted maturity
9Inserted with effect from April 01, 2026 vide Reserve Bank of India (All India Financial Institutions – Credit Risk
Management) – Amendment Directions, 2026 dated January 05, 2026.
11

or renewal date; enhance the limit; or change any of the terms of the facility before its
maturity.
(2) Advances to a public trust, where a trustee is also a director of the lending AIFI.
(3) Loans and advances to a director against government securities, life insurance
policies or fixed deposit, where loan-to-value is not in excess of 100 per cent of the
realisable value of such securities or in adherence to specifically prescribed LTV ratio and
valuation norms for loans against such a primary security by relevant Directions of the
RBI, if any.
(4) Such personal loans and advances to a director, other than loans for investment in
financial assets, as permitted to an employee in terms of the approved policy, or that form
part of the approved compensation/remuneration package of the director, where
applicable. The interest rate charged on all such loans shall not be lower than the rate
charged to the employees.
(5) Non-Fund Based (NFB) facility on behalf of a director or his / her related party,
provided that all such facilities shall be fully secured by cash collateral of equivalent or
higher value.
Provided that cash collateral would not be mandatory in exposures arising on account of
derivative transactions.
C. Restrictions on Lending to Related Parties
C.1 General Principles
17D. This Section sets out general principles and procedures to be followed for prudent
risk management of loan to related parties, wherever allowed.
17E. The Board shall have the overall responsibility of ensuring that suitable mechanisms
are put in place for implementation of the policy on lending to related parties by the
AIFI.
17F. The credit policy (hereinafter called the policy) of an AIFI, as required in terms of
the extant directions, shall contain specific provisions relating to ‘lending to related
parties’ in accordance with the provisions of these Directions. The policy shall
12

prescribe, inter alia, additional safeguards to address the risks emanating from
lending to related parties.
17G. The policy shall also have specific provisions for lending to ‘specified employees’
of the AIFI and their relatives.
17H. Further, the policy shall as a part of the whistleblowing mechanism, encourage
employees to communicate confidentially and without the risk of reprisal, legitimate
concerns about illegal, unethical, or questionable loans to related parties; and
eliminate quid pro quo arrangements, if any.
17I. The policy shall specify aggregate limits for loans towards related parties. Within this
aggregate limit, there shall be sub-limits for loans to a single related party and a
group of related parties. These limits shall be within the extant prudential exposure
limits prescribed by the Reserve Bank.
C.2 Materiality Threshold
17J. Loans to related parties, which are not prohibited in terms of this Chapter of these
Directions, or which have been exempted from prescribed prohibitions in these
Directions, except (i) credit facilities fully secured by cash or liquid securities and
in accordance to prescribed LTV and valuation norms for such securities and (ii)
Interbank loans, shall be subject to a materiality threshold as per the credit policy,
which shall not be higher than the following ceilings:
Asset Size (in ₹ crore) Materiality Threshold Ceilings
> 10,00,000 ₹25 crore
≥ 1,00,000 to up to 10,00,000 ₹10 crore
Less than 100,000 ₹5 crore
Asset size based on the last audited balance sheet.
For loans, materiality threshold shall apply at individual transaction level.
17K. Materiality thresholds may vary for different categories of loan to related parties and
borrowers as per the AIFI’s policy.
17L. All loans above the prescribed materiality threshold shall be sanctioned either by the
Board or the ‘Committee on Lending to Related Parties’ of the AIFI. As regards
13

loans below the materiality threshold, the same can be sanctioned by appropriate
authority in terms of powers delegated to them.
C.3 Recusal of Interested Parties
17M. Directors, KMP, or ‘specified employees’ shall recuse themselves from deliberations
and decision on loan proposals, or contracts and arrangements, involving
themselves or their related parties. Such recusal shall also extend to deliberations
and decisions relating to any subsequent material changes to the terms of such
loans, including one-time settlements, write-offs, waivers, enforcement of security,
implementation of resolution plans, etc.
D. Monitoring of Loans to Related Parties
17N. An AIFI shall put in place a suitable mechanism for maintaining and periodically
updating the list of all the related persons, and the related parties thereof, as well
as the loans sanctioned by the AIFI to such related persons and related parties.
17O. Credit facilities sanctioned to ‘specified employees’ and their relatives shall be
reported to the Board on an annual basis.
17P. Periodic reviews shall be conducted at quarterly or shorter intervals by internal
auditors to check, inter alia, whether guidelines and procedures in relation to loans
to related parties are being adhered to or not.
17Q. Any deviation from the policy relating to lending to related parties and reasons
therefor shall be reported to the Audit Committee of the Board.
17R. Any product, entity or structure formed with the objective of circumventing these
Directions through various means, such as reciprocal lending or quid pro quo
arrangements, and identified as such by the auditors of the AIFI or by the
supervisory authority and investigating agencies shall always be treated as lending
to related party.
E. Enforcement Actions
17S. Any non-compliance with and circumvention of these Directions shall result in
supervisory and enforcement actions as deemed appropriate by the Reserve
14

Bank. These actions may include imposition of monetary penalty, requirement of
full provisioning, directions to conduct staff accountability exercises, forensic
audits, and restrictions or any other supervisory and enforcement actions as
deemed fit.]
15

Chapter IV - Legal Entity Identifier (LEI) for Borrowers
18. The Legal Entity Identifier (LEI) code is conceived as a key measure to improve the
quality and accuracy of financial data systems for better risk management post
the Global Financial Crisis. LEI is a 20 -digit unique code to identify parties to
financial transactions worldwide.
19. It is advised that AIFIs shall ensure that non-individual borrowers with aggregate
exposure of ₹5 crore and above from banks (Scheduled Commercial Banks
(excluding Regional Rural Banks), Local Area Banks, Small Finance Banks, and
Primary (Urban) Co-operative Banks) and Financial Institutions (All India Financial
Institutions and NBFCs (including HFCs)) obtain LEI codes.
Explanation: 'Exposure' for this purpose shall include all fund based and non-fund
based (credit as well as investment) exposure of banks / FIs to the borrower.
Aggregate sanctioned limit or outstanding balance, whichever is higher, shall be
reckoned for the purpose. Lenders shall ascertain the position of aggregate
exposure based on information available either with them, or Central Repository of
Information on Large Credits (CRILC) database or declaration obtained from the
borrower.
20. Borrowers who fail to obtain LEI codes from an authorised Local Operating Unit (LOU)
shall not be sanctioned any new exposure nor shall they be granted renewal /
enhancement of any existing exposure. However, Departments / Agencies of Central
and State Governments (not Public Sector Undertakings registered under Companies
Act or established as Corporation under the relevant statute) shall be exempted from
this provision.
Explanation: A government agency is an administrative set up of the government,
responsible for certain area/s of activity, e.g., ISRO, BIS, DGCA, etc..
An AIFI shall encourage large borrowers to obtain LEI for their parent entity as well
as all subsidiaries and associates.
21. Entities can obtain LEI from any of the Local Operating Units (LOUs) accredited by
16

the Global Legal Entity Identifier Foundation (GLEIF) – the entity tasked to support
the implementation and use of LEI. In India, LEI code may be obtained from Legal
Entity Identifier India Ltd (LEIIL), a subsidiary of the Clearing Corporation of India
Limited (CCIL), which has been recognised by the Reserve Bank as issuer of LEI
under the Payment and Settlement Systems Act, 2007 and is accredited by the GLEIF
as the Local Operating Unit (LOU) in India for issuance and management of LEI.
22. The rules, procedure and documentation requirements maybe ascertained from
LEIIL.
23. After obtaining LEI code, an AIFI shall also ensure that borrowers renew the codes
as per GLEIF guidelines.
17

Chapter V - Filing of Security Interest relating to Immovable (other than equitable
mortgage), Movable, and Intangible Assets in CERSAI
24. The Central Registry of Securitisation Asset Reconstruction and Security Interest of
India (CERSAI), a Government Company licensed under section 8 of the Companies
Act 2013 has been incorporated for the purpose of operating and maintaining the
Central Registry under the provisions of the Securitisation and Reconstruction of
Financial Assets and Enforcement of Security Interest Act, 2002 (SARFAESI Act).
25. It is to be noted that initially transactions relating to securitization and reconstruction
of financial assets and those relating to mortgage by deposit of title deeds to secure
any loan or advances granted by banks and financial institutions, as defined under
the SARFAESI Act, are to be registered in the Central Registry. The records
maintained by the Central Registry shall be available for search by any lender or any
other person desirous of dealing with the property. Availability of such records would
prevent frauds involving multiple lending against the security of same property as well
as fraudulent sale of property without disclosing the security interest over such
property. It may be noted that under the provisions of Section 23 of the SARFAESI
Act, every transaction of security interest is required to be filed with the Registry.
26. The Government of India has issued a Gazette Notification dated January 22, 2016
for filing of the following types of security interest on the CERSAI portal:
(1) Particulars of creation, modification or satisfaction of security interest in immovable
property by mortgage other than mortgage by deposit of title deeds.
(2) Particulars of creation, modification or satisfaction of security interest in
hypothecation of plant and machinery, stocks, debts including book debts or
receivables, whether existing or future.
(3) Particulars of creation, modification or satisfaction of security interest in intangible
assets, being know how, patent, copyright, trademark, licence, franchise or any
other business or commercial right of similar nature.
(4) Particulars of creation, modification or satisfaction of security interest in any ‘under
construction’ residential or commercial or a part thereof by an agreement or
18

instrument other than mortgage.
27. An AIFI is advised to file the charges relating to all current transactions with CERSAI
on an ongoing basis.
19

Chapter VI - Working Capital Finance and Revolving Facility
A. Working Capital Finance
28. An AIFI shall not be permitted to extend working capital finance, unless
specifically permitted by the Reserve Bank.
Provided that the AIFI shall be permitted to extend working capital when banks are
not in a position to meet the credit requirements of the counterparty concerned on
account of temporary liquidity constraints.
Provided further that in case of a counterparty whose working capital is financed
under multiple banking arrangement (MBAs), the AIFI shall obtain an auditor's
certificate indicating the extent of funds already borrowed, before considering the
request for further working capital finance.
B. Revolving Underwriting Facility
29. An AIFI shall not be permitted to extend revolving underwriting facility to Short
Term Floating Rate Notes / Bonds or Debentures issued by companies.
20

Chapter VII - Repeal and other provisions
A. Repeal and saving
30. With the issue of these Directions, the existing Directions, instructions, and
guidelines relating to Credit Risk Management as applicable to All India Financial
Institutions stands repealed, as communicated vide circular
DOR.RRC.REC.302/33-01-010/2025-26 dated November 28, 2025. The Directions,
instructions and guidelines already repealed shall continue to remain repealed.
31. Notwithstanding such repeal, any action taken or purported to have been taken, or
initiated under the repealed Directions, instructions, or guidelines shall continue to
be governed by the provisions thereof. All approvals or acknowledgments granted
under these repealed lists shall be deemed as governed by these Directions.
Further, the repeal of these directions, instructions, or guidelines shall not in any
way prejudicially affect:
(1) any right, obligation or liability acquired, accrued, or incurred thereunder;
(2) any, penalty, forfeiture, or punishment incurred in respect of any contravention
committed thereunder;
(3) any investigation, legal proceeding, or remedy in respect of any such right,
privilege, obligation, liability, penalty, forfeiture, or punishment as aforesaid; and
any such investigation, legal proceedings or remedy may be instituted, continued,
or enforced and any such penalty, forfeiture or punishment may be imposed as if
those directions, instructions, or guidelines had not been repealed.
B. Application of other laws not barred
32. The provisions of these Directions shall be in addition to, and not in derogation of
the provisions of any other laws, rules, regulations, or directions, for the time being
in force.
C. Interpretations
33. For the purpose of giving effect to the provisions of these Directions or in order to
remove any difficulties in the application or interpretation of the provisions of these
21

Directions, the RBI may, if it considers necessary, issue necessary clarifications
in respect of any matter covered herein and the interpretation of any provision of
these Directions given by the RBI shall be final and binding.
(Vaibhav Chaturvedi)
Chief General Manager
22