भारतीय ररज़र्व बैंक
RESERVE BANK OF INDIA
RBI/DOR/2025-26/334
DOR.ACC.REC.No.253/21.04.018/2025-26 November 28, 2025
Reserve Bank of India (All India Financial Institutions – Financial Statements:
Presentation and Disclosures) Directions, 2025 (Updated as on April 1, 2026)
Table of Contents
Chapter-I Preliminary ....................................................................................................... 2
A. Short title and commencement ..................................................................................... 2
B. Applicability ................................................................................................................... 2
Chapter-II Format of the Balance sheet and Profit and Loss account and preparation of
Consolidated Financial Statements .................................................................................. 3
Chapter-III Guidance on specific issues with respect to certain accounting standards .... 6
Chapter-IV Disclosure in Financial Statements - Notes to Accounts ............................... 12
A. General ......................................................................................................................... 12
B. Presentation ................................................................................................................. 12
C. Disclosure requirements ............................................................................................. 12
Chapter-V Consolidated Prudential Reporting (CPR) requirements ................................ 47
A Scope............................................................................................................................ 47
B Frequency .................................................................................................................... 47
C Format .......................................................................................................................... 47
D Other consolidation instructions ................................................................................ 47
E Guidance for filing Consolidated Prudential Report on (CPR) ................................. 48
Chapter-VI Repeal and Other Provisions ........................................................................ 55
A Repeal and saving ....................................................................................................... 55
B Application of other laws not barred .......................................................................... 55
C Interpretations ............................................................................................................. 56

In exercise of the powers conferred by Section 45L of the Reserve Bank of India Act,
1934, and all other provisions / laws enabling the Reserve Bank of India (‘RBI’) in this
regard, RBI being satisfied that it is necessary and expedient in the public interest and
in the interest of financial sector policy so to do, hereby, issues the Directions
hereinafter specified.
Chapter-I Preliminary
A. Short title and commencement
1. These Directions shall be called the Reserve Bank of India (All India Financial
Institutions – Financial Statements: Presentation and Disclosures) Directions,
2025.
2. These Directions shall come into force with immediate effect.
B. Applicability
3. These Directions shall be applicable to All-India Financial Institutions (hereinafter
collectively referred to as ‘AIFIs’ and individually as an ‘AIFI’), viz., Export Import
Bank of India (‘EXIM Bank’), National Bank for Agriculture and Rural
Development (‘NABARD’), Small Industries Development Bank of India (‘SIDBI’),
National Housing Bank (‘NHB’), and National Bank for Financing Infrastructure
and Development (‘NaBFID’).
2

Chapter-II Format of the Balance sheet and Profit and Loss account and
preparation of Consolidated Financial Statements
4. An AIFI shall ensure strict compliance with the Accounting Standards notified
under the Companies (Accounting Standards) Rules, 2021, as amended from
time to time, subject to Directions / Guidelines issued by the Reserve Bank of
India. An AIFI shall, in respect of all business transacted by it, prepare a balance-
sheet and profit and loss account as on the last working day of the year or the
period, as the case may be, in the form and manner prescribed under the
respective Acts governing its functioning.
5. In addition to solo level financial statements, an AIFI shall also prepare and
disclose Consolidated Financial Statements (CFS).
6. The CFS shall be prepared in terms of ‘Accounting Standard (AS) 21 -
Consolidated Financial Statements’ and other related accounting standards, viz.,
‘AS 23 - Accounting for Investments in Associates in Consolidated Financial
Statements’, and ‘AS 27- Financial Reporting of Interests in Joint Ventures’. For
the purpose, the terms 'parent', 'subsidiary', ‘associate’, ‘joint venture’, 'control',
and 'group' shall have the same meaning as ascribed to them in the applicable
accounting standards.
7. A parent AIFI presenting CFS shall consolidate all subsidiaries - domestic as well
as foreign, except those specifically permitted to be excluded under AS 21. The
reasons for not consolidating a subsidiary shall be disclosed in CFS. The
responsibility of determining whether a particular entity shall be included or not for
consolidation would be that of the Management of the parent entity and the
Statutory Auditors shall comment in this regard if they are of the opinion that an
entity which ought to have been consolidated had been omitted.
8. CFS shall normally include consolidated balance sheet, consolidated statement of
profit and loss, principal accounting policies, and notes to accounts.
3

9. The financial statements used in the consolidation shall be drawn up as of the
same reporting date as of standalone financial statements. If that is not possible,
AS 21 allows adoption of six-month-old balance sheet of subsidiaries and
prescribes that adjustments shall be made for the effects of significant
transactions or other events that have occurred during the intervening period. In
case the balance sheet dates of parent and subsidiaries are different, inter-group
netting shall be done as on the balance sheet date of the parent entity. In the
cases where the balance sheet date coincides with that of the AIFI, it shall publish
its CFS without waiting for the audit of its subsidiaries by the Comptroller and
Auditor General. However, the AIFI shall ensure completion of statutory audit of
the accounts of such subsidiaries before consolidation with the parent’s accounts.
10. The CFS shall be prepared using uniform accounting policies for like transactions
and other events in similar circumstances. If it is not practicable to do so, that fact
shall be disclosed together with the proportions of the items in the CFS to which
the different accounting policies have been applied. For preparing the CFS using
uniform accounting policies, an AIFI shall rely on a Statement of Adjustments for
non-uniform accounting policies, furnished by the Statutory Auditors of the
subsidiaries.
11. In cases where different entities in a group are governed by different accounting
norms laid down by the concerned regulator for different businesses, for
consolidation purposes, an AIFI shall use the rules and regulatory requirements
applicable to AIFIs in respect of like transactions and other events in similar
circumstances. In situations where regulatory norms have been prescribed by the
Reserve Bank, the norms as applicable according to the accounting standards
may be followed.
12. For valuation, the investments in associates (other than those specifically
excluded under AS 23) shall be accounted for under the ‘Equity Method’ of
accounting in accordance with AS 23.
13. The valuation of investments in subsidiaries which are not consolidated and
associates which are excluded under AS 23, shall be as per the relevant
4

valuation norms issued by the Reserve Bank. The valuation of investments in
joint ventures shall be accounted for under the ‘proportionate consolidation’
method as per AS 27. An AIFI may take into account the provisions of the
accounting standards relating to the exclusion of subsidiaries, associates or joint
ventures from consolidation under specific circumstances.
14. The solo level financial statements and the CFS shall be submitted to the
Department of Supervision, Reserve Bank of India within one month from the
publication of an AIFI’s annual accounts.
5

Chapter-III Guidance on specific issues with respect to certain accounting
standards
15. An AIFI shall be guided by following with respect to relevant issues in the
application of certain Accounting Standards.
(1) Accounting Standard 9 - Revenue Recognition
(i) Non-recognition of income by an AIFI in the case of non-performing
advances and non-performing investments, in compliance with the
regulatory prescriptions of the Reserve Bank, should not attract a
qualification by the statutory auditors as this would be in conformity with
provisions of the standard since it recognises postponement of recognition
of revenue where collectability of the revenue is significantly uncertain.
(ii) With respect to revenue recognition under the standard, an item of income
shall not be considered material if it does not exceed one per cent of the
total income of the AIFI if the income is reckoned on a gross basis or one
per cent of the net profit (before taxes) if the income is reckoned net of
costs.
(iii) If any item of income is not considered to be material as per the above
norms, it may be recognised when received.
(2) AS 11 - The Effects of Changes in Foreign Exchange Rates
AS 11 is applied in the context of the accounting for transactions in foreign
currencies and in translating the financial statements of foreign operations. The
issues that arise in this context have been identified and an AIFI may be guided
by the following while complying with the provisions of the standard.
(i) Classification of Integral and Non-integral Foreign Operations
Paragraph 17 of AS 11 states that the method used to translate the financial
statements of a foreign operation depends on the way in which it is financed and
operates in relation to the reporting enterprise. For this purpose, foreign
operations are classified as either ‘integral foreign operations’ or ‘non-integral
6

foreign operations’. These classifications are for the limited purpose of
compliance with the standard.
(ii) Exchange rate for recording foreign currency transactions and translation
of financial statements of non-integral foreign operation.
Paragraph 10 of the standard allows, for practical reasons, the use of a rate that
approximates the actual rate at the date of the transaction. The standard also
states that if exchange rates fluctuate significantly, the use of average rate for a
period is unreliable. Since the enterprises are required to record the transactions
at the date of the occurrence thereof, the weekly average closing rate of the
preceding week can be used for recording the transactions occurring in the
relevant week, if the same approximates the actual rate at the date of the
transaction. In view of the practical difficulties in applying the exchange rates at
the dates of the transactions and since the standard allows the use of a rate that
approximates the actual rate at the date of the transaction, an AIFI may use
average rates as detailed below:
(a) FEDAI publishes a weekly average closing rate at the end of each week and
a quarterly average closing rate at the end of each quarter for various
currencies.
(b) Those foreign currency transactions, which are currently not being recorded
in Indian Rupees at the date of the transaction or are being recorded using a
notional exchange rate may now be recorded at the date of the transaction
by using the weekly average closing rate of the preceding week, published
by FEDAI, if the same approximates the actual rate at the date of the
transaction.
(c) Quarterly average closing rate, published by FEDAI at the end of each
quarter, can be used for translating the income and expense items of non-
integral foreign operations during the quarter.
(d) If the weekly average closing rate of the preceding week does not
approximate the actual rate at the date of the transaction, the closing rate at
7

the date of the transaction shall be used. For this purpose, the weekly
average closing rate of the preceding week would not be considered
approximating the actual rate at the date of the transaction if the difference
between (i) the weekly average closing rate of the preceding week, and (ii)
the exchange rate prevailing at the date of the transaction, is more than
three and a half per cent of (ii). In respect of non-integral foreign operations,
if there are significant exchange fluctuations during the quarter, the income
and expense items of non-integral foreign operations shall be translated by
using the exchange rate at the date of the transaction instead of the
quarterly average closing rate. For this purpose, the exchange rate
fluctuation would be considered as significant, if the difference between the
two rates is more than seven per cent of the exchange rate prevailing at the
date of the transaction.
(e) The AIFI is encouraged to equip itself to record the foreign currency
transactions of Indian branches / offices as well as integral foreign
operations and translate the income as well as expense items of non-
integral foreign operations at the exchange rate prevailing on the date of the
transaction.
(iii) Closing rate
Paragraph 7 of the standard defines ‘Closing rate’ as the exchange rate at the
balance sheet date. To ensure uniformity among AIFIs, closing rate to be applied
for the purposes of AS 11 (revised 2003) for the relevant accounting period shall
be the last closing spot rate of exchange announced by FEDAI for that accounting
period.
(iv) Foreign Currency Translation Reserve (FCTR)
In the context of recognition of gains in profit and loss account from FCTR on
repatriation of accumulated profits / retained earnings from overseas branch(es),
it is clarified that the repatriation of accumulated profits shall not be considered as
disposal or partial disposal of interest in non-integral foreign operations as per AS
11. Accordingly, an AIFI shall not recognise in the profit and loss account the
8

proportionate exchange gains or losses held in the foreign currency translation
reserve on repatriation of profits from overseas operations.
(3) Accounting Standard 23 - Accounting for Investments in Associates in
Consolidated Financial Statements
(i) This Accounting Standard sets out principles and procedures for
recognising, in the consolidated financial statements, the effects of the
investments in associates on the financial position and operating results of a
group.
(ii) The Standard requires that an investment in an associate shall be
accounted for in consolidated financial statements under the equity method
subject to certain exceptions.
(iii) The term associate is defined as an enterprise in which the investor has
significant influence, and which is neither a subsidiary nor a joint venture of
the investor.
(iv) Significant influence is the power to participate in the financial and / or
operating policy decisions of the investee but not control over those policies.
Such an influence may be gained by share ownership, statute or agreement.
As regards share ownership, if an investor holds, directly or indirectly
through subsidiaries 20 per cent or more of the voting power of the investee,
it is presumed that the investor has significant influence, unless it can be
clearly demonstrated that this is not the case. Conversely, if the investor
holds, directly or indirectly through subsidiaries less than 20 per cent of the
voting power of the investee, it is presumed that the investor does not have
significant influence, unless such influence can be clearly demonstrated. A
substantial or majority ownership by another investor does not necessarily
preclude an investor from having significant influence. The issue is whether
conversion of debt into equity in an enterprise by an AIFI by virtue of which it
holds more than 20 per cent will result in an investor-associate relationship
for the purpose of AS 23.
9

(v) From the above it is clear that though an AIFI may acquire more than 20 per
cent of voting power in the borrower entity in satisfaction of its advances it
may be able to demonstrate that it does not have the power to exercise
significant influence since the rights exercised by it are protective in nature
and not participative. In such a circumstance, such investment may not be
treated as investment in associate under this Accounting Standard. Hence
the test shall not be merely the proportion of investment but the intention to
acquire the power to exercise significant influence.
(4) AS 26 – Intangible assets
(i) This standard prescribes the accounting treatment for intangible assets that
are not dealt with specifically in another accounting Standard. With respect
to computer software which has been customised for an AIFI’s use and is
expected to be in use for some time, the detailed recognition and
amortisation principle in respect of computer software prescribed in the
standard adequately addresses these issues and may be followed by it.
(5) AS 27 - Financial Reporting of Interests in Joint Ventures
(i) This standard is applied in accounting for interests in joint ventures and the
reporting of joint venture assets, liabilities, income and expenses in the
financial statements of ventures and investors, regardless of the structures
or forms under which the joint venture activities take place.
(ii) This standard identifies three broad types of joint ventures, namely, jointly
controlled operations, jointly controlled assets, and jointly controlled entities.
In case of jointly controlled entities, where an AIFI is required to present
consolidated financial statements, the investment in joint ventures shall be
accounted for as per provisions of this standard.
(iii) In respect of joint ventures in the form of joint controlled operations and
jointly controlled assets, this accounting standard is applicable for both solo
financial statements as well as consolidated financial statements.
(6) AS 28 – Impairment of assets
10

(i) This standard prescribes the procedures that an enterprise applies to ensure
that its assets are carried at no more than their recoverable amount. It is
clarified that the standard shall not apply to investments, inventories and
financial assets such as loans and advances and shall generally be
applicable in so far as it relates to fixed assets.
(ii) The standard shall generally apply to financial lease assets, and assets
acquired in settlement of claims only when the indications of impairment of
the entity are evident.
11

Chapter-IV Disclosure in Financial Statements - Notes to Accounts
16. An AIFI shall disclose the information specified in this chapter in the notes to
accounts of the financial statements.
Explanation 1: These disclosures are intended only to supplement and not to
replace the disclosure requirements under other laws, regulations, or accounting
and financial reporting standards.
Explanation 2: The disclosures set out in this Direction constitute only minima and
the AIFI is encouraged to make additional disclosures as considered appropriate
having regard to its specific operations.
A. General
17. The items listed in these Directions shall be disclosed in the ‘Notes to Accounts’
to both solo level financial statements and CFS. An AIFI shall make additional
disclosures where material. Unless specifically indicated, the prudential items
pertaining to subsidiaries shall be consolidated for the purpose of disclosure in
the notes to accounts as shown in its books of accounts / financial statements /
notes to accounts (without any adjustments to align them with the prudential
norms applicable to the AIFI).
B. Presentation
18. A summary of ‘Significant Accounting Policies’ and ‘Notes to Accounts’ shall be
shown separately.
C. Disclosure requirements
19. In addition to the detailed schedules to the balance sheet, an AIFI is required to
furnish the following information in ‘Notes to Accounts’:
(1) Capital adequacy*
(Amount in ₹ crores)
Sr. Current Previous
Particulars
No. Year Year
i) Common Equity Tier 1 capital (CET 1) (net of deductions, if any)
12

Sr. Current Previous
Particulars
No. Year Year
ii) Additional Tier 1 capital
iii) Tier 1 capital (i + ii)
iv) Tier 2 capital
v) Total capital (Tier 1 + Tier 2)
vi) Total Risk Weighted Assets (RWAs)
vii) CET 1 Ratio (CET 1 as a percentage of RWAs)
viii) Tier 1 Ratio (Tier 1 capital as a percentage of RWAs)
ix) Tier 2 Ratio (Tier 2 capital as a percentage of RWAs)
x) Capital to Risk Weighted Assets Ratio (CRAR) (Total Capital as a
percentage of RWAs)
xi) Leverage Ratio
xii) Percentage of the shareholding of
a) Government of India
b) Other Commercial Banks
c) Other Financial Institutions (including other AIFIs)
xiii) Amount of paid-up equity capital raised during the year
xiv) Amount of non-equity Tier 1 capital raised during the year, of which:
Give list** as per instrument type (perpetual non-cumulative preference
shares, debt capital instruments, etc.). An AIFI shall also specify if the
instruments are Basel I or Basel III compliant.
xv) Amount of Tier 2 capital raised during the year, of which
Give list*** as per instrument type (perpetual cumulative / redeemable
non-cumulative preference shares, debt capital instruments, etc.). An AIFI
shall also specify if the instruments are Basel I or Basel III compliant.
Note -
*For CFS, the risk weighted assets of the subsidiaries shall be notionally recomputed applying the RBI directions applicable to
the AIFI.
**Example: An AIFI may disclose as under:
Current Year Previous Year
Amount of non-equity Tier 1 capital raised during the year of which: ### ###
a) a. Basel III compliant Perpetual Non-Cumulative Preference Shares.
b) b. Basel III compliant Perpetual Debt Instruments ### ###
c) c. …….
***Example: An AIFI may disclose as under:
Current Year Previous Year
Amount of Tier 2 capital raised during the year of which: ### ###
d) a. Basel III compliant Perpetual Non-Cumulative Preference Shares.
e) b. Basel III compliant Perpetual Debt Instruments. ### ###
f) c. ………
13

(2) Provisions
(i) Provisions on standard assets
(Amount in ₹ crore)
Particulars Current Year Previous Year
Provisions towards Standard Assets
(ii) Floating provisions
(Amount in ₹ crore)
Particulars Current Year Previous Year
(a) Opening balance in the floating provisions account
(b) The quantum of floating provisions made in the accounting year
(c) Amount of draw down made during the accounting year
(d) Closing balance in the floating provisions account
Note: The purpose of draw down made during the accounting year shall be mentioned
(3) Asset quality and specific provisions
(i) Non-performing advances
(Amount in ₹ crore)
Particulars Current Year Previous Year
(i) Net NPAs to Net Advances (%)
(ii) Movement of NPAs (Gross)
(a) Opening balance
(b) Additions during the year
(c) Reductions during the year
(d) Closing balance
(iii) Movement of Net NPAs
(a) Opening balance
(b) Additions during the year
(c) Reductions during the year
(d) Closing balance
(iv) Movement of provisions for NPAs
(Excluding provisions on standard assets)
(a) Opening balance
(b) Provisions made during the year
14

Particulars Current Year Previous Year
(c) Write of / write back of excess provisions
(d) Closing balance
(ii) Non-performing investments
(Amount in ₹ crore)
Particulars Current Year Previous Year
(i) Net NPIs to Net Investments (%)
(ii) Movement of NPIs (Gross)
(a) Opening balance
(b) Additions during the year
(c) Reductions during the year
(d) Closing balance
(iii) Movement of Net NPIs
(a) Opening balance
(b) Additions during the year
(c) Reductions during the year
(d) Closing balance
(iv) Movement of provisions for NPIs
(excluding provisions on standard assets)
(a) Opening balance
(b) Provisions made during the year
(c) Write of / write back of excess provisions
(d) Closing balance
Note - For reporting non-performing investments, the total investments would exclude the investment that are assigned zero
risk weight under the capital adequacy framework.
(iii) Non-Performing Assets [3(i)+3(ii)]
(Amount in ₹ crore)
Particulars Current Year Previous Year
(i) Net NPAs to Net Assets (Advances + investments) (%)
(ii) Movement of NPAs (Gross Advances + Gross investments)
(a) Opening balance
(b) Additions during the year
(c) Reductions during the year
(d) Closing balance
(iii) Movement of Net NPAs
(a) Opening balance
(b) Additions during the year
(c) Reductions during the year
(d) Closing balance
(iv) Movement of provisions for NPAs
(Excluding provisions on standard assets)
(a) Opening balance
(b) Provisions made during the year
(c) Write of / write back of excess provisions
(d) Closing balance
15

(iv) Particulars of resolution plan and restructuring
(a) An AIFI covered by the Reserve Bank of India (All India Financial
Institutions – Resolution of Stressed Assets) Directions, 2025, shall make
appropriate disclosures in its financial statements relating to resolution
plans implemented. As per the referenced circular, acquisition of shares
due to conversion of debt to equity during a restructuring process shall be
exempted from regulatory ceilings / restrictions on capital market
exposures, investment in para-banking activities and intra-group exposure.
However, details of the same shall be disclosed by the AIFI in the notes to
accounts to its Annual Financial Statements.
(v) Disclosure related to Project Finance
A lender shall make appropriate disclosures related to project finance as below:
Total
Sr. Number of
Item Description outstanding
No. accounts
(in ₹ crore)
1 Projects under implementation accounts at the beginning of the quarter.
2 Projects under implementation accounts sanctioned during the quarter.
3 Projects under implementation accounts where DCCO has been
achieved during the quarter
4 Projects under implementation accounts at the end of the quarter. (1+2-
3)
5 Out of ‘4’ – accounts in respect of which resolution process involving
extension in original/extended DCCO, as the case may be, has been
invoked.
5.1 Out of ‘5’ – accounts in respect of which Resolution plan has
been implemented.
5.2 Out of ‘5’ – accounts in respect of which Resolution plan is under
implementation.
5.3 Out of ‘5’ – accounts in respect of which Resolution plan has
failed.
6 Out of ‘5’, accounts in respect of which resolution process involving
extension in original/extended DCCO, as the case may be, has been
invoked due to change in scope and size of the project.
7 Out of ‘5’, account in respect of which cost overrun associated with
16

Total
Sr. Number of
Item Description outstanding
No. accounts
(in ₹ crore)
extension in original/extended DCCO, as the case may be, was funded
7.1 Out of ‘7’, accounts where SBCF was sanctioned during financial
closure and renewed continuously
7.2 Out of ‘7’, accounts where SBCF was not pre-sanctioned or
renewed continuously
8 Out of ‘4’ – accounts in respect of which resolution process not involving
extension in original/extended DCCO, as the case may be, has been
invoked.
8.1 Out of ‘8’ – accounts in respect of which Resolution plan has
been implemented.
8.2 Out of ‘8’ – accounts in respect of which Resolution plan is under
implementation.
8.3 Out of ‘8’ – accounts in respect of which Resolution plan has
failed.
Note: The AIFI shall be guided by the Reserve Bank of India (All India Financial Institutions
– Resolution of Stressed Assets) Directions, 2025, as amended from time to time.
(vi) Movement of non-performing assets
(Amount in ₹ crore)
Particulars Current year Previous year
Gross NPAs* as on opening date of accounting period (Opening
Balance)
Additions (Fresh NPAs) during the year
Sub-total (A)
Less:
(i) Upgradations
(ii) Recoveries (excluding recoveries made from upgraded accounts)
(iii) Technical / Prudential** Write offs
(iv) Write offs other than those under (iii) above
Sub-total (B)
Gross NPAs as on March 31 of following year (closing balance) (A-B)
17

Note –
*Gross NPAs as specified in Reserve Bank of India (All India Financial Institutions – Income Recognition, Asset
Classification and Provisioning) Directions, 2025
(vii) Write-offs and recoveries
(Amount in ₹ crore)
Particulars Current year Previous year
Opening balance of Technical / Prudential written off accounts as at
April 1
Add: Technical / Prudential write offs during the year
Subtotal (A)
Less: Recoveries made from previously technical / prudential
written off accounts during the year (B)
Closing balance as at March 31 (A-B)
(viii) Overseas Assets, NPAs and Revenue
(Amount in ₹ crore)
Particulars Current year Previous year
Total Assets
Total NPAs
Total Revenue
(ix) Depreciation and provisions on investments
(Amount in ₹ crore)
Previous
Particulars Current Year
Year
(1) Investments
(i) Gross Investments
(a) In India
(b) Outside India
(ii) Provisions for Depreciation
(a) In India
(b) Outside India
(iii) Net Investments
(a) In India
(b) Outside India
(2) Movement of provisions held towards depreciation on investments
(i) Opening balance
(ii) Add: Provisions made during the year
(iii) Appropriation, if any, from Investment Fluctuation Reserve
18

Previous
Particulars Current Year
Year
Account during the year
(iv) Less: Write off / write back of excess provisions during the year
(v) Less: Transfer, if any, to Investment Fluctuation Reserve Account
(vi) Closing balance
(x) Provisions and Contingencies
(Amount in ₹ crore)
Break up of ‘Provisions and Contingencies’ shown under the Current Year Previous Year
head Expenditure in Profit and Loss Account
Provisions for depreciation on Investment
Provision towards NPA
Provision made towards Income tax
Other Provision and Contingencies (with details)
(xi) Provisioning Coverage Ratio (PCR)
PCR (ratio of provisioning to gross non-performing assets) as at close of business
for the current year and previous year shall be disclosed.
(4) Investment portfolio: constitution and operations
(i) Repo Transactions
(Amount in ₹ crore)
Minimum Maximum Daily Average
Outstanding as
outstanding outstanding outstanding
on March 31
during the year during the year during the year
Securities sold under repo
i. Government securities
ii. Corporate debt securities
Securities purchased under
reverse repo
i. Government securities
ii. Corporate debt securities
19

(ii) Disclosure of Issuer Composition for Investment in Debt Securities
(Amount in ₹ crore)
Amount of
Total
Issuer Investment ‘Below
Sr. No. Amount ‘Unrated’ ‘Unlisted’
made through Investment
Securities Securities
Private Grade’
Held Held
Placement Securities Held
(1) (2) (3) (4) (5) (6) (7)
1. PSUs
2. FIs
3. Banks
4. Private
Corporates
5. Subsidiaries /
Joint Ventures
6. Others
7. Provision held
towards
depreciation
Total *
# Only aggregate amount of provision held to be disclosed in column 3.
Note - (1) Total under column 3 shall tally with the total of Investments included under the following categories in the
balance sheet:
(a) Shares
(b) Debentures & Bonds
(c) Subsidiaries / Joint Ventures
(d) Others
(2) Amounts reported under columns 4, 5, 6, and 7 above may not be mutually exclusive.
(iii) Sale and Transfers to / from HTM Category
If the value of sales and transfers of securities to / from HTM category exceeds
five percent of the book value of investments held in HTM category at the
beginning of the year, the AIFI shall disclose the market value of the investments
held in the HTM category and indicate the excess of book value over market
value for which provision is not made. This disclosure is required to be made in
'Notes to Accounts' in the AIFI's audited Annual Financial Statements.
20

(iv) Government Security Lending (GSL) transactions (in market value
terms)
As at …(current year balance sheet date)
(Amount in ₹ crore)
Daily Total
Minimum Maximum
average Outstanding volume of
outstanding outstanding
outstanding as on March transactions
during the during the
during the 31 during the
year year
year year
Securities lent through
GSL transactions
Securities borrowed
through GSL transactions
Securities placed as
collateral under GSL
Transactions
Securities received as
collateral under GSL
Transactions
Note - The disclosure shall be as specified in Reserve Bank of India (Government Securities Lending) Directions, 2023
as amended from time to time. For ease of reference the disclosure template as on the date of issuance of this
Direction has been reproduced here.
As at …(previous year balance sheet date)
(Amount in ₹ crore)
Daily Total
Minimum Maximum
average Outstanding volume of
outstanding outstanding
outstanding as on March transactions
during the during the
during the 31 during the
year year
year year
Securities lent through
GSL transactions
Securities borrowed
through GSL transactions
Securities placed as
collateral under GSL
Transactions
Securities received as
collateral under GSL
Transactions
(5) Disclosure of transfer of loan exposures
Lender shall make appropriate disclosures in its financial statements, under
‘Notes to Accounts’, relating to the total amount of loans not in default / stressed
21

loans transferred and acquired to / from other entities as prescribed below, on a
quarterly basis:
(i) In respect of loans not in default that are transferred or acquired, the disclosures
shall cover, inter alia, aspects such as weighted average maturity, weighted
average holding period, retention of beneficial economic interest, coverage of
tangible security coverage, and rating-wise distribution of rated loans.
Specifically, a transferor shall disclose all instances where it has agreed to
replace loans transferred to transferee(s) or pay damages arising out of any
representation or warranty. The disclosures shall also provide break-up of loans
transferred / acquired through assignment / novation and loan participation.
(ii) In the case of stressed loans transferred or acquired, the following disclosures
should be made:
Details of stressed loans transferred during the year (to be made separately for loans classified as NPA
and SMA)
(all amounts in ₹ To permitted To other transferees (please
To ARCs
crore) transferees specify)
No. of accounts
Aggregate principal
outstanding of loans
transferred
Weighted average
residual tenor of the
loans transferred
Net book value of
loans transferred (at
the time of transfer)
Aggregate
consideration
Additional
consideration realised
in respect of accounts
transferred in earlier
years
Details of loans acquired during the year
22

From SCBs, RRBs,
Co-operative Banks,
AIFIs, SFBs and
(all amounts in ₹ crore) From ARCs
NBFCs including
Housing Finance
Companies (HFCs)
Aggregate principal outstanding of loans
acquired
Aggregate consideration paid
Weighted average residual tenor of loans
acquired
The transferor(s) should also make appropriate disclosures with regard to the quantum of
excess provisions reversed to the profit and loss account on account of sale of stressed
loans. Also, the lender should disclose the distribution of the security receipts (SRs) held
by it across the various categories of recovery ratings assigned to such SRs by the credit
rating agencies.
Note - These disclosures are originally specified in the Reserve Bank of India (All India
Financial Institutions – Transfer and Distribution of Credit Risk) Directions, 2025 and
have merely been reproduced here for ease of reference. In case of any conflict
between these Directions and the Reserve Bank of India (All India Financial Institutions –
Transfer and Distribution of Credit Risk) Directions, 2025, on disclosure requirements,
the latter will prevail. While making disclosures in audited annual financial statements,
AIFIs should invariably provide the figures for both the current and previous year to
facilitate comparison.
(6) Disclosure on Co-Lending Arrangements (CLA):
(a) In addition to the applicable disclosure requirements under extant
regulations, an AIFI shall also prominently disclose on their website, a list of
all active CLA partners.
(b) An AIFI shall also make appropriate disclosures in their financial
statements, under ‘Notes to Accounts’, relating to necessary details of CLAs
on an aggregate basis. The details may inter alia include quantum of CLAs,
weighted average rate of interest, fees charged / paid, broad sectors in which
CLA was made, performance of loans under CLA, details related to default
23

loss guarantee, if any, etc. The disclosure shall be done on quarterly/annual
basis.
Note: As regards CLA, the AIFI shall be guided by the Reserve Bank of India
(All India Financial Institutions – Transfer and Distribution of Credit Risk) Directions,
2025, as amended from time to time. These Directions shall come into force
from January 1, 2026, or from any earlier date as decided by a AIFI as per its
internal policy (“effective date”). Any new CLA entered into after the effective
date shall be in compliance with these Directions.
(7) Non-Fund Based (NFB) Credit Facilities: An AIFI shall disclose the details of NFB
credit facilities in the format given below.
As at 31st As at 31st Previous Year Previous
March 20XX March 20XX Year
Secured* Unsecured Secured* Unsecured
Portion Portion Portion Portion
I Outstanding Guarantees (₹ crore)
i) In India
ii) Outside India
II Acceptances, Endorsements and other
Obligations (₹ crore)
III Other NFB Credit facilities (₹ crore)
* Secured portion is as defined under Reserve Bank of India (All India Financial Institutions – Credit Facilities) Directions, 2025.
Note: As regards NFB credit limits, the AIFI shall be guided by the Reserve Bank of India (All
India Financial Institutions – Credit Facilities) Directions, 2025, as amended from time to
time. These Directions shall come into force from April 1, 2026, or from any earlier date as
decided by an AIFI as per its internal policy (“effective date”). Extension of any new NFB
facility and renewal of an existing NFB facility after the effective date, shall be governed in
terms of these Directions. All existing NFB facilities extended/ renewed till the effective date
shall be governed by the existing instructions as applicable to the respective AIFI.
24

(8) Operating Results
a) Particulars Current year Previous Year
(i) Interest Income as a percentage to Working Funds
(ii) Non-interest income as a percentage to Working Funds$
(iii) Operating Profit as a percentage to Working Funds$
(iv) Return on Assets@
(v) Return on Equity#
(vi) Net Profit per employee (₹ in crore)
$Working funds to be reckoned as average of total assets (excluding accumulated losses, if any) as reported to Reserve
Bank of India
@Return on Assets would be with reference to average working funds (i.e., total of assets excluding accumulated
losses, if any).
#Return on Equity will be calculated with reference to average of the opening balance of equity in the beginning of the
year and closing balance at the end of the year. Return on Assets would be with reference to average working funds
(i.e., total of assets excluding accumulated losses, if any) calculated as the average of the figures as at the end of the
previous accounting year, the end of the succeeding half year and the end of the accounting year under report.
(9) Credit concentration risk
(i) Capital market exposure
(Amount in ₹ crore)
Particulars Current Year Previous Year
(i) direct investment in equity shares, convertible bonds, convertible
debentures and units of equity oriented mutual funds the corpus
of which is not exclusively invested in corporate debt;
(ii) advances against shares / bonds / debentures or other securities
or on clean basis to individuals for investment in shares
(including IPOs / ESOPs), convertible bonds, convertible
debentures, and units of equity oriented mutual funds;
(iii) advances for any other purposes where shares or convertible
bonds or convertible debentures or units of equity oriented
mutual funds are taken as primary security;
(iv) advances for any other purposes to the extent secured by the
collateral security of shares or convertible bonds or convertible
debentures or units of equity oriented mutual funds i.e. where the
primary security other than shares / convertible bonds /
convertible debentures / units of equity oriented mutual funds
`does not fully cover the advances;
25

Particulars Current Year Previous Year
(v) secured and unsecured advances to stockbrokers and
guarantees issued on behalf of stockbrokers and market makers;
(vi) loans sanctioned to corporates against the security of shares /
bonds / debentures or other securities or on clean basis for
meeting promoter’s contribution to the equity of new companies
in anticipation of raising resources;
(vii) bridge loans to companies against expected equity flows /
issues;
(viii) underwriting commitments taken up by the AIFI in respect of
primary issue of shares or convertible bonds or convertible
debentures or units of equity oriented mutual funds;
(ix) financing to stockbrokers for margin trading;
(x) all exposures to Venture Capital Funds (both registered and
unregistered)
Total Exposure to Capital Market
Note - For restructuring of dues in respect of listed companies, a lender may be ab initio compensated for its loss /
sacrifice (diminution in fair value of account in net present value terms) by way of issuance of equities of the company
upfront, subject to the extant regulations and statutory requirements. If such acquisition of equity shares results in
exceeding the extant regulatory Capital Market Exposure (CME) limit, the same shall be disclosed in the ‘Notes to
Accounts’ in the Annual Financial Statements. An AIFI shall separately disclose details of conversion of debt into equity
as part of a strategic debt restructuring which are exempt from CME limits.
(ii) Exposure to country risk
(Amount in ₹ crore)
Provision
Exposure (net)
Provision held held as at
Exposure (net) as at March…
Risk Category* as at March… as at March… March…
(Previous
(Current Year) (Current Year) (Previous
Year)
Year)
Insignificant
Low
Moderate
High
Very High
Restricted
Off-credit
Total
26

Note - The AIFI may use the seven-category classification followed by Export Credit Guarantee Corporation of India Ltd.
(ECGC) for the purpose of classification and making provisions for country risk exposures. ECGC shall provide to the
AIFI, on request, quarterly updates of their country classifications and shall also inform all AIFIs in case of any sudden
major changes in country classification in the interim period.
(iii) Prudential Exposure Limits - Single Counterparty / Group of
Connected Counterparties exceeded by the AIFI
(a) The number and amount of exposures in excess of the prudential
exposure limits during the year
(Amount in ₹ crore)
Exposure as
Amount
Sl. PAN Borrower Industry Industry Amount percentage
Sector Non-
No. Name Code Name Funded to Tier 1
Funded
capital
1.
Total 0.00 0.00 0.00%
Note –
(i) An exposure shall be determined in terms of Reserve Bank of India (All India Financial Institutions - Concentration
Risk Management) Directions, 2025.
(ii) Please indicate whether the limit has been exceeded with RBI’s prior approval or otherwise.
(b) Credit exposure as percentage to Tier 1 capital and as percentage to
total assets, in respect of:
(i) The largest single counterparty;
(ii) The largest group of connected counterparties;
(iii) The 20 largest single counterparties; and
(iv) The 20 largest groups of connected counterparties.
(c) Credit exposure to the five largest industrial sectors (if applicable) as
percentage to total loan assets.
(d) Total amount of advances for which intangible securities such as
charge over the rights, licenses, authority, etc. have been taken as also
the estimated value of such intangible collateral. The disclosure shall be
made under a separate head to differentiate such loans from other
entirely unsecured loans.
27

(Amounts in ₹ crore)
Current Previous
Particulars
Year Year
Total unsecured advances
Out of the above, amount of advances for which intangible securities such as charge
over the rights, licenses, authority, etc. have been taken
Estimated value of such intangible securities
(e) Factoring exposures shall be separately disclosed.
(iv) Concentration of borrowings /lines of credit, credit exposures and
NPAs (to be shown separately both at solo and consolidated level, if
applicable)
(a) Concentration of borrowings and lines of credit
(Amount in ₹ crore)
Particulars Current Year Previous Year
Total borrowings from twenty largest lenders
Percentage of borrowings from twenty largest lenders to total borrowings
of the AIFI
Note - Credit exposure’ shall include funded and non-funded credit limits, underwriting and other similar commitments.
The sanctioned limits or outstanding, whichever is higher, shall be reckoned for arriving at exposure limit. In case of
term loans, however, the exposure limit should be reckoned on the basis of actual outstanding plus undisbursed or
undrawn commitments. However, in cases where disbursements are yet to commence, exposure limit should be
reckoned on the basis of the sanctioned limit or the extent up to which the AIFI has entered into commitments with the
borrowing companies in terms of the agreement. The AIFI should include in the non-funded credit limit, the credit
equivalent amounts of forward contracts in foreign exchange and other derivative products like currency swaps, options,
etc. as per the extant exposure norms.
(b) Concentration of credit exposures*
(Amount in ₹ crore)
Particulars Current year Previous year
Total exposures to twenty largest borrowers
Percentage of exposures to twenty largest borrowers to Total Advances of the
AIFI
Total Exposure to twenty largest borrowers / customers
Percentage of exposures to twenty largest borrowers / customers to Total
Exposure of the AIFI on borrowers / customers
28

Particulars Current year Previous year
In the case of EXIM Bank, percentage of total of top ten country exposures to
total exposures
*Credit Exposure include derivatives as per RBI Directions.
(c) Sector-wise concentration of exposures and NPAs
An AIFI shall disclose, in the following formats, sub sectors where the
outstanding advances exceed 10 per cent of the outstanding total advances to
that sector. For instance, if outstanding advances to the mining industry
exceed 10 per cent of the outstanding total advances to ‘Industry’ sector it shall
disclose details of its outstanding advances to mining separately in the format
above under the ‘Industry’ sector.
29

EXIM Bank
(Amount in ₹ crore)
Current Year Previous Year
Percentage
Percentage of
of Gross
Sr. Outstanding Outstanding Gross NPAs
Sector Gross NPAs to Gross
No. Total Total to Total
NPAs Total NPAs
Advances Advances Advances in
Advances in
that sector
that sector
A Domestic Sector
1 Total Export finance
Agricultural sector
Industrial sector
Services sector
2 Total Import finance
Agricultural sector
Industrial sector
Services sector
3. Of (A), exposures
guaranteed by the
Government of India
B External Sector
1 Total Export finance
Agricultural sector
Industrial sector
Services sector
2 Total Import finance
Agricultural sector
Industrial sector
Services sector
3. Of (B), exposures
guaranteed by the
Government of India
C Other exposures
D Total exposures
(A+B+C)
30

NABARD
(Amount in ₹ crore)
Current year Previous year
Percentage
Percentage of
Sr. of Gross
Sector Outstanding Gross NPAs Outstanding
No. Gross Gross NPAs to
Total to Total Total
NPAs NPAs Total
Advances Advances in Advances
Advances in
that sector
that sector
I. Agricultural sector including
allied agricultural activities
1. Central Government
2. Central PSUs
3. State Governments
4. State PSUs
5. Scheduled Commercial
Banks
6. Regional Rural Banks
7. Co-operative banks
8. Private sector (excluding
banks)
II. Others (Please specify)
Total (I+II)
31

NHB
(Amount in ₹ crore)
Current year Previous year
Percentage
Percentage of
Sr. of Gross
Sector Outstanding Gross NPAs to Outstanding
No. Gross Gross NPAs to
Total Total Total
NPAs NPAs Total
Advances Advances in Advances
Advances in
that sector
that sector
I. Housing Sector
1. Central Government
2. Central PSUs
3. State Governments
4. State PSUs
5. Scheduled Commercial
Banks
6. Regional Rural Banks
7. Co-operative banks
8. HFCs
8. Private sector (excluding
banks and HFCs)
II. Commercial Real Estate,
if any$
III. Others
(Please specify)
Total (I+II+III)
$Exposure to Commercial Real Estate includes direct including securitised exposures secured by mortgages on commercial
real estate (office buildings, retail space, multi-purpose commercial premises, multi-family residential buildings, multi tenanted
commercial premises, industrial or warehouse space, hotels, land acquisition, development, and construction, etc.). Exposure
would also include no- fund based (NFB) limits.
32

SIDBI
(Amount in ₹ crore)
Current year Previous year
Percentage
Percentage of
Sr. No. Sector of Gross
Outstanding Outstanding Gross NPAs
Gross NPAs to Gross
Total Total to Total
NPAs Total NPAs
Advances Advances Advances in
Advances in
that sector
that sector
I. Industrial
sector
1. Central
Government
2. Central PSUs
3. State
Governments
4. State PSUs
5. Scheduled
Commercial
Banks
6. Regional Rural
Banks
7. Co-operative
banks
8. Private sector
(excluding
banks)
II. Micro-finance
sector
III. Others
Total (I+II+III)
33

NaBFID
(Amount in ₹ crore)
Current year Previous year
Percentage
Percentage of
Sr. of Gross
Sector Outstanding Gross NPAs Outstanding
No. Gross Gross NPAs to
Total to Total Total
NPAs NPAs Total
Advances Advances in Advances
Advances in
that sector
that sector
Infrastructure
I.
Projects in India
1. Central Government
2. Central PSUs
3. State Governments
4. State PSUs
5. Financial Institutions
Private Sector (other
6.
than FIs)
Others
7.
(Please specify)
Infrastructure
Projects outside India
II. (including projects
located partly in
India)
Other Development
III.
Projects
Total (I+II+III)
34

(v) Unhedged foreign currency exposure
An AIFI shall disclose its policies to manage currency induced credit risk. It shall
also disclose the incremental provisioning and capital held by them towards this
risk.
1[(vi) Exposures to Related Parties
Details of exposures to related parties as defined in Reserve Bank of India (All India Financial
Institutions – Credit Risk Management) Directions, 2025:
(Amount in ₹ crore)
Sr. Previous Current
Particulars
No. Year Year
A. Loans to Related Parties
Aggregate value of loans sanctioned to related parties during
1.
the year
Aggregate value of outstanding loans to related parties as on
2.
31st March
Aggregate value of outstanding loans to related parties as a
3.
proportion of total credit exposure as on 31st March (in %)
Aggregate value of outstanding loans to related parties which
4.
are categorized as:
(i) Special Mention Accounts as on 31st March
(ii) Non-Performing Assets as on 31st March
Amount of provisions held in respect of loans to related
5.
parties as on 31st March
B. Contracts and Arrangements involving Related Parties
Aggregate value of contracts and arrangements awarded to
6.
related parties during the year
Aggregate value of outstanding contracts and arrangements
7.
involving related parties as on 31st March
1Inserted with effect from April 01, 2026 vide Reserve Bank of India (All India Financial Institutions – Financial
Statements: Presentation and Disclosures) – Amendment Directions, 2026 dated January 5, 2026
35

]
(2) Derivatives
(i) Forward rate agreement / interest rate swap
(Amount in ₹ crore)
Particulars Current Year Previous Year
i) The notional principal of swap agreements
ii) Losses which would be incurred if counterparties
failed to fulfil their obligations under the
agreements
iii) Collateral required by the AIFI upon entering into
swaps
iv) Concentration of credit risk arising from the swaps$
v) The fair value of the swap book@
Note - Nature and terms of the swaps including information on credit and market risk and the accounting policies
adopted for recording the swaps shall also be disclosed.
$Examples of concentration could be exposures to particular industries or swaps with highly geared companies.
@If the swaps are linked to specific assets, liabilities, or commitments, the fair value shall be the estimated amount that
the AIFI would receive or pay to terminate the swap agreements as on the balance sheet date. For a trading swap the
fair value shall be its mark to market value.
(ii) Exchange traded interest rate derivatives
(Amount in ₹ crore)
Sr. No. Particulars Current Year Previous Year
(i) Notional principal amount of exchange traded interest rate
derivatives undertaken during the year (instrument wise)
(ii) Notional principal amount of exchange traded interest rate
derivatives outstanding as on March 31 …..
(instrument wise)
(iii) Notional principal amount of exchange traded interest rate
derivatives outstanding and not ‘highly effective’ (instrument
wise)
(iv) Mark to market value of exchange traded interest rate
derivatives outstanding and not ‘highly effective’ (instrument
wise)
36

(iii) Disclosures on risk exposure in derivatives
(a) Qualitative disclosures
An AIFI shall discuss its risk management policies pertaining to derivatives
with particular reference to the extent to which derivatives are used, the
associated risks and business purposes served. The discussion shall also
include:
(i) the structure and organisation for management of risk in derivatives
trading,
(ii) the scope and nature of risk measurement, risk reporting and risk
monitoring systems,
(iii) policies for hedging and / or mitigating risk and strategies and
processes for monitoring the continuing effectiveness of hedges /
mitigants, and
(iv) accounting policy for recording hedge and non-hedge transactions;
recognition of income, premiums and discounts; valuation of
outstanding contracts; and provisioning, collateral and credit risk
mitigation.
(b) Quantitative disclosures
(Amount in ₹ crore)
Current Year Previous Year
Sr.
Particular Currency Interest rate Currency Interest rate
No
Derivatives derivatives Derivatives derivatives
Derivatives (Notional
Principal Amount)
(i)
a) For hedging
b) For trading
Marked to Market
Positions[1]
(ii)
a) Asset (+)
b) Liability (-)
(iii) Credit Exposure [2]
Likely impact of one
percentage change in
(iv)
interest rate (100*PV01)
a) on hedging derivatives
37

Current Year Previous Year
Sr.
Particular Currency Interest rate Currency Interest rate
No
Derivatives derivatives Derivatives derivatives
b) on trading derivatives
(v) Maximum and Minimum of
100*PV01 observed during
the year
a) on hedging
b) on trading
Note:
1. The net position may be shown either under asset or liability, as the case may be, for each type of
derivatives.
2. The AIFI may adopt the Current Exposure Method on Measurement of Credit Exposure of Derivative
Products as per extant RBI instructions.
(3) Disclosure of Letters of Comfort (LoCs) issued by AIFIs
An AIFI shall disclose the full particulars of all the Letters of Comfort (LoCs)
issued by them during the year, including their assessed financial impact, as also
their assessed cumulative financial obligations under the LoCs issued by them in
the past and outstanding.
(4) Asset Liability Management
(Amount in ₹ crore)
o t 1 s y a d 4 1 o t 5 1 s y a d 8 2 o t s y a d 9 2 s h tn o m 3 s h tn o m 3 r e v O s h tn o m 6 o t d n a s h tn o m 6 r e v O r a e y 1 o t p u d n a d n a r a e y 1 r e v O s r a e y 3 o t p u a e y 3 d n r e a v s O r s r a e y 5 o t p u 5 r e v O s r a e y la to T
Deposits*
Advances
Investments
Borrowings
Foreign Currency
assets
Foreign Currency
liabilities
38

(5) Draw Down from Reserves
Suitable disclosures shall be made regarding any draw down of reserves.
(6) Disclosure of Penalties imposed by RBI
Penalties, if any, imposed by the Reserve Bank of India under the Reserve Bank
of India Act, 1934, for contraventions of any of the provisions of the Act or non-
compliance with any other requirements of the Act, order, rule, or condition
specified by Reserve Bank of India under the Act shall be disclosed as below:
(i) A Press Release will be issued by the Reserve Bank of India giving details
of the circumstances under which the penalty is imposed on the AIFI along
with the communication on the imposition of penalty in public domain.
(ii) The penalty shall be disclosed in the ‘Notes on Accounts’ to the balance
sheet in the concerned AIFI’s next Annual Report.
(iii) In the case of foreign branch, the penalty shall be disclosed in the ‘Notes on
Accounts’ to the next balance sheet for its Indian operations.
(7) Disclosure of customer complaints
Current Year Previous Year
(a) No. of complaints pending at the beginning of the year
(b) No. of complaints received during the year
(c) No. of complaints redressed during the year
(d) No. of complaints pending at the end of the year
39

(8) Disclosures relating to securitisation
In the annual notes to account, the originators shall indicate the outstanding
amount of securitised assets as per books of the Special Purpose Entities (SPEs)
and total amount of exposures retained by the originator as on the date of
balance sheet to comply with the minimum retention requirement (MRR). These
figures shall be based on the information duly certified by the SPE’s auditors
obtained by the originator from the SPE. These disclosures should be made in
the format given in the table below.
(Number/ Amounts in ₹ crore)
Mar 31 Mar 31
Sl. No. Particulars
(Current Year) (Previous Year)
1. No of SPEs holding assets for securitisation transactions
originated by the originator (only the SPVs relating to
outstanding securitisation exposures to be reported here)
2. Total amount of securitised assets as per books of the
SPEs
3. Total amount of exposures retained by the originator to
comply with MRR as on the date of balance sheet
a) Off-balance sheet exposures
• First loss
• Others
b) On-balance sheet exposures
• First loss
• Others
4. Amount of exposures to securitisation transactions other
than MRR
a) Off-balance sheet exposures
i) Exposure to own securitisations
• First loss
• Others
ii) Exposure to third party securitisations
• First loss
• Others
40

Mar 31 Mar 31
Sl. No. Particulars
(Current Year) (Previous Year)
b) On-balance sheet exposures
i) Exposure to own securitisations
• First loss
• Others
ii) Exposure to third party securitisations
• First loss
• Others
5. Sale consideration received for the securitised assets and
gain/loss on sale on account of securitisation
6. Form and quantum (outstanding value) of services
provided by way of, liquidity support, post-securitisation
asset servicing, etc.
7. Performance of facility provided. Please provide
separately for each facility viz. Credit enhancement,
liquidity support, servicing agent etc. Mention percent in
bracket as of total value of facility provided.
(a) Amount paid
(b) Repayment received
(c) Outstanding amount
8. Average default rate of portfolios observed in the past. (may mention
Please provide breakup separately for each asset class average default rate
i.e., RMBS, Vehicle Loans etc of previous 5 years)
9. Amount and number of additional/top up loan given on
same underlying asset. Please provide breakup separately
for each asset class i.e., RMBS, Vehicle Loans, etc.
10. Investor complaints
(a) Directly/Indirectly received and;
(b) Complaints outstanding
Note - Separate table separately for ‘Simple, Transparent and Comparable’ (STC) and non-STC transactions shall be provided
AIFIs shall be guided by the Reserve Bank of India (All India Financial Institutions
– Securitisation Transactions) Directions, 2025, as amended from time to time.
41

(9) Off-Balance Sheet SPVs Sponsored (which are required to be consolidated
as per accounting norms)
Name of the SPV sponsored
Domestic Overseas
(10) Disclosure as per specific accounting standards
(i) Accounting Standard 5 – Net Profit or Loss for the period, prior period
items and changes in accounting policies.
These disclosures, wherever warranted, shall, be made in the ‘Notes to
Accounts’. An AIFI shall ensure compliance with AS 5 in respect of any item of
prior period income or prior period expenditure which exceeds one percent of the
total income / total expenditure of the AIFI if the income / expenditure is reckoned
on a gross basis or one percent of the net profit before taxes or net losses as the
case may be if the income is reckoned net of costs.
(ii) Accounting Standard 17 – Segment Reporting
The indicative formats for disclosure under ‘AS 17 – Segment Reporting’ are as
below.
Format
Part A: Business segments
(Amounts in ₹ crore)
Business Wholesale Wholesale
Segments Treasury Operations Operations (Direct Other Business Total
(Refinance) Lending)
Particulars Current Previous Current Previous Current Previous Current Previous Current Previous
Year Year Year Year Year Year Year Year Year Year
Revenue
Result
Unallocated
expenses
Operating
profit
Income taxes
Extraordinary
42

Business Wholesale Wholesale
Segments Treasury Operations Operations (Direct Other Business Total
(Refinance) Lending)
Particulars Current Previous Current Previous Current Previous Current Previous Current Previous
Year Year Year Year Year Year Year Year Year Year
profit / loss
Net profit
Other
information:
Segment
assets
Unallocated
assets
Total assets
Segment
liabilities
Unallocated
liabilities
Total
liabilities
Note: No disclosure need be made in the shaded portion
43

Part B: Geographic segments
(Amount in ₹ crore)
Domestic International Total
Current Previous Current Previous
Previous Year Current Year
Year Year Year Year
b) R
e
v
e
n
u
e
c) A
s
s
e
t
s
Note -
(a) The business segment shall ordinarily be considered as the primary reporting format and geographical
segment would be the secondary reporting format.
(b) The business segments will be ‘Treasury’, ‘Wholesale operations (Refinance)’, ‘Wholesale operations
(Direct lending), ‘Other Business’.
(c) ‘Domestic’ and ‘International’ segments will be the geographic segments for disclosure.
(d) The AIFI may adopt its own methods, on a reasonable and consistent basis, for allocation of expenditure
among the segments.
(e) ‘Treasury’ shall include the entire investment portfolio.
(f) Other Business includes all other financial operations not covered under the three major heads. It shall
also include all other residual operations including any para banking transactions/activities.
(g) Besides the above-mentioned segments, the AIFI shall report additional segments which meet the
quantitative criterion prescribed in the AS 17 for identifying reportable segments.
44

(iii) Accounting Standard 18 – Related Party Disclosures
Format
(Amount in ₹ crore)
Relatives of
Parent Key
Associates/ Key
Items / Related (as per Subsidiaries Manageme
Joint Manageme Total
Party ownership nt
ventures nt
or control) Personnel@
Personnel
Borrowings#
Deposit#
Placement of
deposits#
Advances#
Investments#
Non funded
commitments#
Leasing
arrangements
availed#
Leasing
arrangements
provided#
Purchase of
fixed assets
Sale of fixed
assets
Interest paid
Interest received
Rendering of
services*
Receiving of
services*
Management
contracts*
@Whole time directors of the Board
#The outstanding at the year end and the maximum during the year are to be disclosed
*Contract services etc. and not services like remittance facilities, locker facilities etc.
Note -
(a) Where there is only one entity in any category of related party, the AIFI need not disclose
any details pertaining to that related party other than the relationship with that related party.
(b) Related parties for an AIFI are its parent, subsidiary (ies), associates/ joint ventures, Key
Management Personnel (KMP) and relatives of KMP. KMP are the whole-time directors for
an AIFI. Relatives of KMP would be on the lines indicated in Section 45S of the R.B.I. Act,
1934.
45

(c) The name and nature of related party relationship shall be disclosed, irrespective of whether
there have been transactions, where control exists within the meaning of the Standard.
Control would normally exist in case of parent-subsidiary relationship. The disclosures may
be limited to aggregate for each of the above related party categories and would pertain to
the year-end position as also the maximum position during the year.
(d) The accounting standard exempts state-controlled enterprises from making any disclosures
pertaining to their transactions with other related parties which are also state controlled
enterprises. Thus, the AIFI need not disclose its transactions with its subsidiaries or other
state-controlled entities. However, it will be required to disclose its transactions with other
related parties.
(e) Secrecy provisions: If in any of the above category of related parties there is only one related
party entity, any disclosure would tantamount to infringement of the general secrecy laws or
the specific provisions, if any, relating to secrecy set out in the relevant statutes governing
functioning of the AIFI. In terms of AS 18, the disclosure requirements do not apply in
circumstances when providing such disclosures would conflict with the reporting enterprise’s
duties of confidentiality as specifically required in terms of statute, by regulator or similar
competent authority. Further, in case a statute or regulator governing an enterprise prohibits
the enterprise from disclosing certain information, which is required to be disclosed, non-
disclosure of such information would not be deemed as non-compliance with the Accounting
Standards. On account of the judicially recognised common law duty of the AIFI to maintain
the confidentiality of the customer details, it need not make such disclosures. In view of the
above, where the disclosures under the Accounting Standards are not aggregated
disclosures in respect of any category of related party i.e., where there is only one entity in
any category of related party, the AIFI need not disclose any details pertaining to that related
party other than the relationship with that related party.
46

Chapter-V Consolidated Prudential Reporting (CPR) requirements
A Scope
2. Wherever an AIFI has any subsidiaries, joint ventures, or associates, in addition
to the CFS, it shall also prepare CPR as prescribed in paragraph 14 relating to
the entire group including all entities under its control. The AIFI shall follow the
guidance contained in paragraphs 8 to 13 while preparing these reports. The
CPR for a consolidated AIFI shall include information and accounts of related
entities (subsidiaries, associates, and joint ventures) of the AIFI, which carry on
activities of financial nature. The AIFI shall justify the exclusion of any entity for
the purpose of CPR.
B Frequency
3. The CPR shall be submitted on half-yearly basis as part of off-site reporting
system on the lines of the existing extant guidelines on preparation of CFS. The
CPR for half-year ended March shall be submitted by the end of June. If audited
results of entities under the CPR are not available, the AIFI shall submit the
provisional CPR with unaudited results of such entities, by end of June and final
position by end of September. The CPR for the half-year ended September shall
be submitted by the end of December.
Note - In case of NHB, the provisional CPR with unaudited results may be
submitted by end of September and final position by end of December.
C Format
4. An AIFI shall use the same format for CPR purposes as its solo balance sheet
prescribed under the respective Acts with appropriate modifications / notes. The
CPR comprises of consolidated balance sheet, consolidated profit and loss
account, and select data on financial / risk profile of the consolidated AIFI.
D Other consolidation instructions
5. In respect of related entities which operate under severe long-term restrictions
which significantly impair their ability to transfer funds to the parent, an AIFI shall
47

disclose separately the book value of the amounts due from such related entities
and the net amounts recoverable from them. An AIFI shall also consider making
appropriate provisions for the shortfall.
E Guidance for filing Consolidated Prudential Report on (CPR)
E.1 Introduction
6. The objective of the CPR is to collect consolidated prudential information at the
level of the group to which the supervised institution belongs. It aims to capture
data mainly on the following areas.
(i) Consolidated balance sheet data in the format prescribed.
(ii) Consolidated profit & loss account in the format prescribed.
(iii) Select data on financial / risk profile of the consolidated AIFI: Consolidated
financial data as per format, data on large exposures, forex exposures, CRR
& SLR for the group and structural liquidity profile for the consolidated AIFI.
E.2 Periodicity of the return
7. Periodicity of the return is half-yearly as on March 31 / September 30 (June 30 /
December 31 in case of NHB).
E.3 General guidelines
8. For compiling the consolidated balance sheet and profit & loss account as part of
the CPR, the general guidelines for preparation of CFS may be followed.
E.4 CPR
9. Financials for the consolidated AIFI
For the consolidated financial data as per format (at the consolidated AIFI level),
general guidance for preparation of balance sheet and profit & loss account for
CPR shall be used.
10. Large exposures
(1) Total credit exposure of the group to an individual borrower or a borrower group
comprises both funded and non-funded exposures. For exposure limits,
48

outstanding amount, or the sanctioned limit, whichever is higher shall be reported.
Consolidation of the exposures from different entities of the consolidated AIFI
shall be done by the reporting institution for compiling this section. Funded
exposures comprise loans and advances (including bills purchased / discounted),
and investments in bonds / debentures and equities. Non-funded exposures
comprise guarantees (financial), guarantees (non-financial), letters of credit,
underwriting commitments, etc.
(2) Exposure by the consolidated AIFI to a single borrower / debtor shall not exceed
15 per cent of its capital funds. Exposure by the consolidated AIFI to a borrower /
debtor group shall not exceed 40 per cent of its capital funds. The aggregate
exposure on a borrower / debtor group can exceed the exposure norm of 40 per
cent by an additional 10 per cent (i.e., up to 50 per cent) provided the additional
exposure is for the purpose of financing infrastructure projects. Computation of
capital funds, exposure etc. shall be on the lines of the methodology adopted for
AIFI.
(3) In this section, cases where the regulatory norm is breached in case of individual
borrower or borrower group shall be reported. At the minimum, the top 20 large
exposures to individual borrowers / borrower group of the consolidated AIFI shall
be reported.
11. Forex exposures
Total of overnight open position limits for the consolidated AIFI may be reported
here. Wherever overnight open position Limits are not prescribed, the maximum
overnight open position during the period for such entities may be taken for
consolidation. The position may be reported without netting across institutions.
12. Exposures to capital markets
Calculations of capital market exposure shall be similar to the computation for the
parent AIFI. Advances (fund-based) to capital market shall include loans to
individuals, share and stock-brokers, market makers, etc., while non-fund-based
facilities to capital market shall include financial guarantees issued to stock
49

exchanges on behalf of stock-brokers and other financial guarantees. Equity
investment in capital market would include equities, equity oriented mutual funds
and convertible bonds and debentures.
13. Structural liquidity position for a consolidated AIFI
This section is supposed to capture the maturity structure of cash inflows and
outflows for the consolidated AIFI, which is distributed in eight maturity buckets.
The maturity mismatches or gaps run by the consolidated AIFI in these eight-time
bands would indicate the liquidity risk facing the consolidated AIFI. Intra-group
transactions and exposures shall be excluded from this consolidation.
14. The format of CPR shall be as under.
(1) Financials for the consolidated AIFI
(Amount in ₹ crores)
Sr. No Parameters Amount
1 Total Assets
2 Capital & Reserves
3 Regulatory Capital (Actual/ Notional) – after netting for consolidation
4 Risk-weighted assets (Actual/ Notional)
5 Capital Adequacy Ratio (Actual/ Notional) (%)
6 Total Deposit Funds
7 Total Borrowings
8 Total Advances (Gross)
9 Total Non-performing Advances (Gross)
10 Total Investments (Book Value)
11 Total Investments (Market Value)
12 Total Non-performing Investments
13 Total Non-performing Assets (incl. Advances & Investments which are non-
performing) (Items 9 & 12)
14 Provision held for Non-performing Advances
15 Provisions held for Non-performing Investments
16 Profit before Tax (for Half-year/ Year ended September / March)
17 Profit after Tax (for Half-year/ Year ended September / March)
18 Return on Assets (for Half-year / Year ended September / March)
19 Return on Equity (for the Half – Year ended September / March)
20 Total Off – balance sheet exposure (contingent credits)
50

Sr. No Parameters Amount
21 Total Dividends paid (for Half-year / Year ended September / March)
(2) Large exposures
(i) Large Exposures to Individual Borrowers
Note - Cases where the regulatory norm is breached may be reported. At the minimum, the top 20
large exposures to individual borrowers of the consolidated AIFI may be reported.
(ii) Large exposures to borrower groups
Name of the
Name of Amount Amount Non-
Sl. No Borrower % to capital funds
Group Funded Funded
Group / Name
1.
Total 0.00 0.00 0.00%
Total 0.00 0.00 0.00%
Note: Cases where the regulatory norm is breached may be reported. At the minimum, the top 20
large exposures to borrower groups of the consolidated AIFI may be reported.
(iii) Forex Exposures
Amount
Total of Overnight Open Position Limit for the consolidated AIFI*
*Note: Wherever Overnight Open Position Limits are not prescribed, the maximum Overnight Open Position during the
period for such entities may be taken. The position may be reported without netting across institutions.
(iv) Exposures to Capital Markets of the consolidated AIFI
Particulars Amount
1. Advances to Capital Market
a. Fund based
b. Non-fund based
2. Equity Investment in Capital Market
3. Total Capital Market Exposure (1 + 2)
4. Total on-balance-sheet assets of the consolidated AIFI (excluding Intangible assets and
accumulated losses) of the previous March
5. Total Capital Market Exposure as a percent of Total on-balance-sheet assets of the
consolidated AIFI (excluding Intangible assets and accumulated losses) of the previous
March (in percent)
51

6. Net Worth (Capital & Reserves)
7. Equity Investment in Capital Market (Investment in Shares, convertible bonds and
debentures and units of equity-oriented mutual funds) as percent of Net worth (in
percent)
Note - Calculations of Capital Market Exposure is similar to the computation of parent bank.
(v) Exposure to Unsecured Guarantees and Unsecured Advances for the
consolidated AIFI
1. Outstanding Unsecured Guarantees
2. Outstanding Unsecured Advances
3. Total Outstanding Advances
4. 20 percent of the AIFI’s outstanding unsecured guarantees plus total of outstanding
unsecured advances as percent of outstanding advances (in percent)
Note - Calculations similar to the computation of parent AIFI.
(vi) Structural Liquidity Position for the consolidated AIFI
Over
one Over 3
29 days Over 3m Over 6m
1 to 14 15 to year years and Over 5
and up to and up to and up to Total
days 28 days and up up to 5 years
3m 6m one year
to 3 years
years
1. Capital
2. Reserves and
Surplus
3. Deposits
4. Borrowings
4.1. Call and Short
Notice
4.2. Inter Institutional*
(Term)
4.3. Refinances
4.4. Others
5. Other Liabilities
and Provisions
5.1. Bills Payable
5.2. Inter-office
Adjustment
5.3. Provisions
5.4. Others
6.Lines of Credit-
committed to:
52

Over
one Over 3
29 days Over 3m Over 6m
1 to 14 15 to year years and Over 5
and up to and up to and up to Total
days 28 days and up up to 5 years
3m 6m one year
to 3 years
years
6.1. Institutions
6.2. Customers
7. Un-availed Portion
of Cash Credit
/Overdraft / Demand
Loan component of
working capital
8. Letter of Credit /
Guarantees
9. Repos
10. Bills
Rediscounted
(DUPN)
11. Swaps (Buy/Sell)
12. Interest Payable
13. Others
A. Total Outflows
1. Cash
2. Balances with RBI
3. Balances with other
banks
3.1. Current Account
3.2. Money at Call,
Short Notice
3.3. Term Deposits &
Other placements
4. Investments
(including those under
Repos but excluding
Reverse Repos)
5. Advances
(Performing)
5.1. Bills Purchased
and Discounted
(Including bills under
DUPN
5.2 Cash Credits,
Overdrafts and Loans
Repayable on
Demand
5.3. Term Loans
6. NPAs (Advances
and Investments)
7. Fixed Assets
8. Other Assets
53

Over
one Over 3
29 days Over 3m Over 6m
1 to 14 15 to year years and Over 5
and up to and up to and up to Total
days 28 days and up up to 5 years
3m 6m one year
to 3 years
years
8.1. Inter-office
Adjustments
8.2. Others
9. Reverse Repos
10. Swaps (Sell/Buy) /
maturing forwards
11. Bills
Rediscounted
(DUPN)
12. Interest
Receivable
13. Committed Lines
of Credit
B. Total Inflows
C. Mismatch (B-A)
D. Cumulative
Mismatch
E. C as % to A
*Inter-Institutional Borrowings shall include borrowings from regulated financial entities.
54

Chapter-VI Repeal and Other Provisions
A Repeal and saving
15. With the issue of these Directions, the existing Directions, instructions, and
guidelines relating to Financial Statements- Presentation and Disclosures, as
applicable to All India Financial Institutions stands repealed, as communicated
vide circular DOR.RRC.REC.302/33-01-010/2025-26 dated November 28, 2025.
The Directions, instructions, and guidelines repealed prior to the issuance of these
Directions shall continue to remain repealed.
16. Notwithstanding such repeal, any action taken or purported to have been taken, or
initiated under the repealed Directions, instructions, or guidelines shall continue to
be governed by the provisions thereof. All approvals or acknowledgments granted
under these repealed lists shall be deemed as governed by these Directions.
Further, the repeal of these directions, instructions, or guidelines shall not in any
way prejudicially affect:
a. any right, obligation or liability acquired, accrued, or incurred thereunder;
b. any penalty, forfeiture, or punishment incurred in respect of any
contravention committed thereunder;
c. any investigation, legal proceeding, or remedy in respect of any such right,
privilege, obligation, liability, penalty, forfeiture, or punishment as aforesaid;
and any such investigation, legal proceedings or remedy may be instituted,
continued, or enforced and any such penalty, forfeiture or punishment may
be imposed as if those directions, instructions, or guidelines had not been
repealed.
B Application of other laws not barred
17. The provisions of these Directions shall be in addition to, and not in derogation of
the provisions of any other laws, rules, regulations, or directions, for the time
being in force.
55

C Interpretations
18. For the purpose of giving effect to the provisions of these Directions or in order to
remove any difficulties in the application or interpretation of the provisions of these
Directions, the RBI may, if it considers necessary, issue necessary clarifications in
respect of any matter covered herein and the interpretation of any provision of
these Directions given by the RBI shall be final and binding.
(Sunil T S Nair)
Chief General Manager
56