भारतीय �रज़वर् बैंक
RESERVE BANK OF INDIA
RBI/DOR/2025-26/352
DOR.STR.REC.271/21.04.048/2025-26 November 28, 2025
Reserve Bank of India (Non-Banking Financial Companies - Transfer and
Distribution of Credit Risk) Directions, 2025 (Updated as on July 01, 2026)
Table of Contents
Chapter I - Preliminary .......................................................................................................2
PART A - TRANSFER OF LOAN EXPOSURES .................................................................... 5
Chapter I - Scope and Definitions .....................................................................................5
Chapter II - General Conditions applicable for all loan transfers ................................ 10
Chapter III - Transfer of Loans which are not in default ............................................... 14
Chapter IV - Transfer of stressed loans ......................................................................... 20
PART B: CO-LENDING ARRANGEMENTS ......................................................................... 33
Chapter I - Scope and Definition .....................................................................................3 3
Chapter II - Prudential Norms ..........................................................................................3 5
PART C: REPEAL AND OTHER PROVISIONS ................................................................... 40

Introduction
Credit Risk Transfer and Distributions are resorted to by lending institutions for
multitude of reasons ranging from liquidity management and rebalancing their
exposures or strategic sales. RBI has been taking several steps towards its
development through Directions/Guidelines on transfer of loan exposures, Co-lending
arrangements, consortium arrangements and others. In this regard, the Reserve Bank
hereby issues a comprehensive and self-contained framework of regulatory guidelines
governing different avenues of credit risk transfer and distribution. Accordingly, in
exercise of powers conferred by sections 45JA, 45L and 45M of the Reserve Bank of
India Act, 1934; sections 30A, 32 and 33 of the National Housing Bank Act, 1987; and
section 6 of the Factoring Regulation Act, 2011, the Reserve Bank being satisfied that
it is necessary and expedient in the public interest so to do, hereby issues these
Directions hereinafter specified.
Chapter I - Preliminary
A. Short title and commencement
1. These directions shall be called the Reserve Bank of India of India (Non-Banking
Financial Companies – Transfer and Distribution of Credit Risk) Directions, 2025.
2. These Directions shall come into effect on the day it is placed on the official website
of the Reserve Bank of India of India.
Provided that, the Directions under Part B shall come into force from January 1, 2026,
or from any earlier date as decided by a NBFC as per its internal policy (“effective
date”). Any new CLA entered into after the effective date shall be in compliance with
the directions under Part B.
Provided further that existing CLAs (i.e., the lending arrangements executed before
August 06, 2025) and new CLAs entered into prior to the effective date shall be in
compliance with the extant regulations.
B. Applicability
3. These Directions shall be applicable to the following Non-Banking Financial
Companies (hereinafter collectively referred to as ‘NBFCs’ and individually as an
‘NBFC’), for all layers unless specified otherwise :
(i) NBFC-D registered with the RBI under the provisions of the RBI Act, 1934;
2

(ii) NBFC-ICC registered with the RBI under the provisions of the RBI Act, 1934;
(iii) NBFC-Factor registered with the RBI under the provisions of the Factoring
Regulation Act, 2011;
(iv) NBFC-MFI registered with the RBI under the provisions of the RBI Act, 1934;
(v) NBFC-IFC registered with the RBI under the provisions of the RBI Act, 1934;
(vi) IDF-NBFC registered with the RBI under the provisions of the RBI Act, 1934;
(vii) HFC registered with the RBI under the provisions of the NHB Act, 1987;
These Directions are not applicable for the following:
(i) MGC registered with RBI under the scheme of Registration of Mortgage
Guarantee Companies
(ii) NBFC-P2P registered with the RBI under the provisions of the RBI Act,
1934;
(iii) NBFC-AA registered with the RBI under the provisions of the RBI Act, 1934;
(iv) CIC registered with the RBI under the provisions of the RBI Act, 1934;
(v) SPD registered with the RBI as NBFCs under the provisions of the RBI Act,
1934;
(vi) NOFHC registered with the RBI as NBFC under the provisions of the RBI
Act, 1934;
(vii) 1[NBFC holding Certificate of Registration as ‘Type I NBFC’];
(viii) ‘NBFCs in Base layer having customer interface but not availing public
funds’.
Note: The applicability under these Directions is in line with the regulatory
structure for NBFCs as set out in Reserve Bank of India (Non-Banking Financial
Companies – Registration, Exemptions and Framework for Scale Based
Regulation) Directions, 2025.
1 Substituted with effect from July 01, 2026 vide Reserve Bank of India (Non-Banking Financial Companies – Registration,
Exemptions and Framework for Scale Based Regulation) Amendment Directions, 2026 dated April 29, 2026.
3

C. Definitions
4. The terms have been defined in the respective Parts of this Direction.
5. All other expressions, unless defined in the respective parts, shall have the
same meaning as have been assigned to them under the Banking Regulation Act,
1949 or the Reserve Bank of India of India Act, 1934 or any statutory modification or
re-enactment thereto or any other relevant regulation or as used in commercial
parlance, as the case may be.
4

PART A - TRANSFER OF LOAN EXPOSURES
6. Loan transfers are essential to the development of a credit risk market, enabling
diversification of credit risk originating in the financial sector and ensure the availability
of market-based credit products for a diversified set of investors having commensurate
capacity and risk appetite.
Chapter I - Scope and Definitions
A. Applicability and Purpose
7. NBFCs, shall acquire loans only from a transferor specified as a lender in
paragraph 12(4) unless specifically permitted.
8. No NBFC shall undertake any loan transfers or acquisitions other than those
permitted under Part A of this direction and in the manner prescribed therein.
Explanation: The above proviso shall be without prejudice to the provisions of Reserve
Bank of India (Non-Banking Financial Companies – Securitisation Transactions)
Directions, 2025; obtention of guarantees; or products explicitly permitted in terms of
RBI guidelines.
9. The directions in Part A will be applicable to all loan transfers undertaken by the
NBFC, including transfer of loans through novation or assignment, and loan
participation.
Provided that in cases of loan transfers other than loan participation, legal ownership
of the loan shall be mandatorily transferred to the transferee(s) to the extent of
economic interest transferred.
10. These directions shall apply only to NBFCs mentioned in paragraph 12(4) as
transferor(s) or transferee(s) in loan transfers, unless specifically made applicable to
other categories of entities as transferee(s) as per the specific permissions as per
Paragraphs 58 and 62.
11. In respect of transferee(s) other than lenders mentioned in paragraph 12(4) and
Asset Reconstruction Companies (ARCs), which are also financial sector entities, the
prudential norms, including asset classification and provisioning post the transfer shall
be as per the respective regulatory frameworks laid down by the respective financial
sectoral regulators, viz., Securities and Exchange Board of India, Insurance
5

Regulatory and Development Authority of India, Pension Fund Regulatory and
Development Authority, and International Financial Services Centres Authority.
B. Definitions
12. For the purpose of the Part A of these Directions, following definitions shall
apply:
(1) “credit enhancement” means a contractual arrangement in which an entity
provides some degree of added protection to other parties to a transaction so as to
mitigate the credit risk of their acquired exposures;
(2) “default’ means non-payment of debt (as defined under the Insolvency and
Bankruptcy Code, 2016) when whole or any part or instalment of the debt has become
due and payable and is not paid by the debtor or the corporate debtor, as the case
may be;
(3) “Economic Interest” refers to the risks and rewards that may arise out of loan
exposure through the life of the loan exposure;
(4) “Lenders” shall include the following set of entities,
Scheduled Commercial Banks; Regional Rural Banks; Local Area Banks; Primary
(Urban) Co-operative Banks; State Co-operative Banks/ Central Co-operative Banks;
All India Financial Institutions (NABARD, NHB, EXIM Bank, SIDBI and NaBFID); Small
Finance Bank; Non-Banking Finance Companies (NBFCs) including Housing Finance
Companies (HFCs).
Provided that Regional Rural Banks; Local Area Banks and Primary (Urban) Co-
operative Banks/State Co-operative Banks/ Central Co-operative Banks are permitted
as only transferor(s) of stressed loans under Chapter IV of Part A of these directions
and are not permitted as transferors(s) or transferee(s) in any other type of loan
transfers.
(5) “loan participation” means a transaction through which the transferor transfers
all or part of its economic interest in a loan exposure to transferee(s) without the actual
transfer of the loan contract, and the transferee(s) fund the transferor to the extent of
the economic interest transferred which may be equal to the principal, interest, fees
and other payments, if any, under the transfer agreement;
6

Provided that the transfer of economic interest under a loan participation shall only be
through a contractual transfer agreement between the transferor and transferee(s) with
the transferor remaining as the lender on record.
Provided further that in case of loan participation, the exposure of the transferee(s)
shall be to the underlying borrower and not to the transferor. Accordingly, the transferor
and transferee(s) shall maintain capital according to the exposure to the underlying
borrower calculated based on the economic interest held by each post such transfer.
The applicable prudential norms, including the provisioning requirements, post the
transfer, shall be based on the above exposure treatment and the consequent
outstanding.
(6) “minimum holding period (MHP)” means the minimum period for which a
transferor must hold the loan exposures before the same is transferred to
transferee(s);
(7) “net book value (NBV)” means the funded outstanding in a loan exposure
reduced by the specific provisions made against such exposure;
(8) “permitted transferees” mean the lenders specified below:
Scheduled Commercial Banks, All India Financial Companies (NABARD, NHB, EXIM
Banks, SIDBI and NaBFID), Small Finance Banks; and Non-Banking Finance
Companies (NBFCs) including Housing Finance Companies (HFCs).
(9) “personal loans” refer to loans given to individuals and consist of (a) consumer
credit, (b) education loan, (c) loans given for creation/ enhancement of immovable
assets (e.g., housing, etc.), and (d) loans given for investment in financial assets
(shares, debentures, etc.).
Explanation: A loan shall be categorised as personal loan if it falls within the purview
of the above definition, even if such loans are not explicitly classified so in any
regulatory / supervisory reporting.
(10) “portfolio” means a set of loan exposures transferred together at a point of time
under the same transfer agreement;
Provided that transfer agreements under which loans are transferred as a portfolio
shall list the details of the individual loan exposures which are transferred as a portfolio.
7

(11) “stressed loans” mean loan exposures that are classified as non-performing
assets (NPA) or as special mention accounts (SMA);
(12) “time of transfer” means the point at which the associated risks and rewards, to
the extent of economic interest transferred and as documented in the loan
participation, assignment, or novation contract, become binding on the transferor and
transferee.
(13) “transfer” means a transfer of economic interest in loan exposures by the
transferor to the transferee(s), with or without the transfer of the underlying loan
contract, in the manner permitted in Part A of these directions;
Explanation: Consequently, the transferee(s) shall “acquire” the loan exposures
following a loan transfer.
(14) “transferee” means the entity to which the economic interest in a loan exposure
is transferred under Part A of these directions;
Provided that a transferee shall not be a person disqualified in terms of Section 29A
of the Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code, 2016;
Provided further that in case of transfer of loan exposures of borrowers in whose
accounts instances of fraud have been detected by any lender, the transferee(s) shall
neither belong to the existing promoter group of such borrower nor shall be a
subsidiary / associate / related party etc. (domestic as well as overseas) of any person
belonging to the existing promoter group of such borrower.
Explanation I: In market parlance, transferee may be alternatively referred to as the
assignee under assignment transactions and participant under loan participations,
wherever applicable.
Explanation II: For the purpose of the second proviso above, the term ‘promoter group’
shall have the same meaning as in the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue
of Capital and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2018; and the term ‘related
party’ shall have the same meaning as in the Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code, 2016.
Explanation III: The responsibility for verifying and establishing that the transferee(s)
comply with the above provisos shall be with the transferor(s).
8

(15) “transferor” means the entity which transfers the economic interest in a loan
exposure under these directions;
Explanation: In market parlance, transferor may be alternatively referred to as the
assignor under assignment transactions and grantor under loan participations,
wherever applicable
9

Chapter II - General Conditions applicable for all loan transfers
A. General Requirements
13. The NBFC shall put in place a comprehensive Board approved policy for
transfer and acquisition of loan exposures under these guidelines. These guidelines
must, inter alia, lay down the minimum quantitative and qualitative standards relating
to due diligence, valuation, requisite IT systems for capture, storage and management
of data, risk management, periodic Board level oversight, etc. Further, the policy must
also ensure independence of functioning and reporting responsibilities of the units and
personnel involved in transfer / acquisition of loans from that of personnel involved in
originating the loans. All transactions must meet the requirements as detailed in the
policy.
14. Loan transfers should result in transfer of economic interest without being
accompanied by any change in underlying terms and conditions of the loan contract.
In all cases, if there are any modifications to terms and conditions of the loan contract
during and after transfer (e.g. in take-out financing), the same shall be evaluated
against restructuring as defined in Reserve Bank of India (Non-Banking Financial
Companies – Resolution of Stressed Assets) Directions, 2025.
15. In loan participation transactions, by design, the legal ownership completely
remains with the transferor even after economic interest has been transferred to
transferee(s). In such cases, the roles and responsibilities of the transferor and
transferee(s) shall be clearly delineated contractually.
16. Lenders referred to in paragraph 12(4), regardless of whether they are
transferors or otherwise, should not offer credit enhancements or liquidity facilities in
any form in the case of loan transfers.
17. A transferor cannot re-acquire a loan exposure, either fully or partially, that had
been transferred by the entity previously, except as a part of a resolution plan under
the Reserve Bank of India (Non-Banking Financial Companies – Resolution of
Stressed Assets) Directions, 2025 or as part of a resolution plan approved under the
Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code, 2016.
10

18. A loan transfer should result in immediate separation of the transferor from the
risks and rewards associated with loans to the extent that the economic interest has
been transferred.
In case of any retained economic interest in the exposure by the transferor, the loan
transfer agreement should clearly specify the distribution of the principal and interest
income from the transferred loan between the transferor and the transferee(s).
However, it is reiterated that any retention of economic interest by the transferor must
not result in credit enhancement.
19. The transferee(s) should have the unfettered right to transfer or otherwise
dispose of the loans free of any restraining condition to the extent of economic interest
transferred to them.
(1) The transferee(s) shall have no recourse to the transferor for any expenses or
losses linked to the transferred economic interest except those specifically permitted
under these guidelines.
(2) Further, the transferor / transferee(s) shall not be constrained to obtain consent
from the transferee(s) / transferor, as the case may be, when it comes to resolution or
recovery in respect of the beneficial economic interest retained by or transferred to the
respective entity.
20. The transferor shall have no obligation to re-acquire or fund the re-payment of
the loans or any part of it or substitute loans held by the transferee(s) or provide
additional loans to the transferee(s) at any time except those arising out of breach of
warranties or representations made at the time of transfer.
The transferor should be able to demonstrate that a notice to this effect has been given
to the transferee(s) and that the transferee(s) have acknowledged the absence of such
obligation.
21. Wherever security interest is held by the transferor in trust with the transferee(s)
as the beneficiaries, the transferee(s) shall ensure that a mutually agreed and binding
mechanism for timely invocation of such security interest, if the need arises, has been
properly documented and put in place.
11

22. The transfer of loans by transferor(s) must not contravene the rights of
underlying obligors and all necessary consents from obligors (including from third
parties), where necessary as per the respective contracts, should have been obtained.
23. Any rescheduling, restructuring or re-negotiation of the terms of the underlying
agreement/s attempted by permitted transferee(s) after the transfer of assets to the
transferee(s) shall be as per the provisions of the Reserve Bank of India (Non-Banking
Financial Companies – Resolution of Stressed Assets) Directions, 2025.
24. A transferor should notify RBI (Department of Supervision) of all instances
where it has replaced loans transferred to a transferee or paid damages arising out of
any representation or warranty.
25. For domestic transactions, transferee(s) should ensure that the transferor has
strictly adhered to the MHP criteria in respect of loans acquired by them, as prescribed
in Chapter III of Part A.
26. The extant instructions on outsourcing and the applicable provisions of Reserve
Bank of India (Non-Banking Financial Companies – Know Your Customer) Directions,
2025 shall be complied with in all cases.
27. In respect of exposures that do not meet the requirements of these directions,
transferee(s) shall maintain capital charge equal to the actual exposure acquired. In
such cases, the transferor shall continue to recognise the transferred loan in its
entirety, as if it was not transferred at all in the first place, and the consideration
received shall be recognised as an advance.
28. There is no restriction on transfer of loan accounts classified as fraud by
NBFCs. NBFCs can transfer such exposures to permitted transferees as per their
board approved policies in compliance with Paragraph 78.
B. Transferor as servicing facility provider
29. The transferee(s) may engage a servicing facility provider, which may also be
the transferor, to administer or service the acquired exposures.
30. If an NBFC, including a transferor, performs the role of a servicing facility
provider for the transferee(s) after the loan transfer has occurred, it shall ensure that
the following conditions are fulfilled:
12

(1) The nature, purpose, extent of the facility and all required standards of
performance shall be clearly specified in a written agreement.
(2) The facility is provided on an 'arm's length basis' on market terms and
conditions.
(3) Payment of any fee or other income arising from the role as a servicing facility
provider is not subject to deferral or waiver in a way that would directly or indirectly
provide credit enhancement or liquidity facility.
(4) The duration of the facility is limited to the earliest of the dates on which:
(i) the underlying loans are completely amortised;
(ii) all claims connected with the transferee(s)’ economic interest in the underlying
loans are paid out; or
(iii) the lender's obligations as the servicing facility provider are otherwise
terminated.
(5) There should not be any recourse to the lender beyond the fixed contractual
obligations.
(6) The transferee(s) have the clear right to select an alternative party to provide
the servicing facility.
(7) The NBFC should be under no obligation to remit funds to the transferee(s) until
it has received funds generated from the underlying loans.
(8) The NBFC shall hold in trust, on behalf of the transferee(s), the cash flows
arising from the underlying loans and shall avoid co-mingling of these cash flows with
its own cash flows.
Provided that if the above conditions are not satisfied, the transferor NBFC shall
maintain capital on the loans transferred as if the loans in respect of which servicing
facility is being provided are held by it directly on its books.
13

Chapter III - Transfer of Loans which are not in default
A. General requirements
31. The provisions of this Chapter do not apply to:
(1) sale of entire portfolio of loans consequent upon a decision to exit the line of
business completely;
(2) sale of stressed loans; and
(3) any other arrangement /transactions, specifically exempted by the Reserve
Bank of India of India.
32. The transactions referred to in Paragraph 31 above shall be governed by the
respective regulatory frameworks. However, in all such cases, the provisions of
Chapter II of Part A shall continue to apply except in cases where the respective
regulatory framework provides for otherwise.
33. NBFCs should formulate a board approved policy to ensure that the gap
between time of transfer and due-diligence cut-off date should be minimal and no loans
in default is transferred under provisions of this Chapter.
34. A transferor can transfer a single loan or a part of such loan or a portfolio of
such loans to permitted transferees through assignment or novation or a loan
participation contract.
35. In cases where loan transfers result in a change of lender of record under a
loan agreement, the transferor and transferee(s) should ensure that the existing loan
agreement has suitable enabling provisions including consent by the underlying
borrower that allow for such transactions by laying down the required ground rules.
36. Transferor’s retention of economic interest, if any, in the loans transferred
should be supported by legally valid documentation. A legal opinion regarding the
following, at a minimum, should also be kept on record by the transferor:
(1) legal validity of amount of economic interest retained by the transferor;
(2) the transferor not retaining any risk and rewards associated with the loans to
the extent transferred to the transferee(s);
14

(3) the arrangement does not interfere with transferee(s)’ rights and rewards
associated with the loans to the extent transferred to it, except to the extent of
collaborative action contractually agreed between the transferor and the transferee(s)
for enforcement of security, if any, including the scenarios in which the security interest
is held by the transferor in trust for the trustees; and
(4) the arrangement does not result in the transferor becoming an agent, trustee,
or fiduciary of the transferee(s), except:
(i) providing servicing facilities extended by the transferor, if any, post such
transfer, to the extent of rights to cash flows in respect of the transferee(s); and
(ii) collaborative action contractually agreed between the transferor and
transferee(s) in relation to enforcement of security including scenarios in which
the security interest is held by the transferor in trust for the transferee(s).
37. There shall not be any difference in the criteria for credit underwriting applied
by the transferor to exposures transferred and those held or retained on their book. To
this end, similar processes for approving and, where relevant, amending, renewing
and monitoring of credit facilities extended should be applied by the transferor for all
the loan exposures originated by it.
38. The transfer shall be only on cash basis and the consideration shall be received
not later than at the time of transfer of loans. The provisions of this paragraph shall be
without derogation of the provisions of paragraph 18, which pertains to retained
economic interest.
(1) The transfer consideration should be arrived at in a transparent manner on an
arm's length basis.
39. The due diligence in respect of the loans cannot be outsourced by the
transferee(s) and should be carried out by its own staff with the same rigour and as
per the same policies as would have been done for originating any loan.
40. The above due diligence requirements shall be applicable at the level of each
loan. In case of loans acquired as a portfolio, if a transferee is unable to perform due
diligence at the individual loan level for the entire portfolio but can perform due
diligence at the individual loan level for not less than one-third of the portfolio by value
and number of loans in the portfolio, then due diligence may be performed at the
15

portfolio level for the remaining, and the transferor has to retain at least 10 per cent of
economic interest in the transferred loans.
Explanation 1: If a transfer involves multiple transferees, the minimum retention
requirement by the transferor, if any of the transferees is unable to perform due
diligence at the individual loan level, shall be on the entire amount of transferred loans,
including the portions transferred to transferees who are able to perform due diligence
at the individual loan level.
Explanation 2: The treatment in paragraph 40 is only to facilitate transfer of loans
where due to operational or other constraints, the transferee does not conduct a loan
level due diligence. This is without prejudice to the requirement under paragraph 50 to
apply prudential norms at the individual loan level.
41. NBFC needs to monitor on an ongoing basis and in a timely manner
performance information on the loans acquired, including through conducting periodic
stress tests and sensitivity analyses, and take appropriate action required, if any. The
action may, inter alia, include modification to exposure ceilings in respect of certain
types of asset classes, change in ceilings applicable to transferor, etc. For this
purpose, transferee(s) should put in place formal policies and procedures appropriate
to and commensurate with the risk profile of the loans acquired. Such procedures
should be as rigorous as that followed by them for portfolios of similar loans directly
originated by them. The information required for these procedures, if not collected
directly by the NBFCs and obtained from the servicing facility agent, if any, should be
certified by the authorized officials of the servicing facility agent.
42. Depending upon the size of the portfolio, credit monitoring procedures may
include verification of the information submitted by the servicing facility agent’s
concurrent and internal auditors.
(1) The servicing facility agreement should provide for such verifications by the
auditors of the transferee(s), and wherever applicable, the transferor.
(2) All relevant information and audit reports should be available for verification by
the supervisors from RBI during the supervision of the transferee(s) and transferor.
16

B. Minimum holding period (MHP)
43. The transferor can transfer loans only after a minimum holding period (MHP),
as prescribed below, which is counted from the date of registration of the underlying
security interest with Central Registry of Securitisation Asset Reconstruction and
Security Interest of India (CERSAI):
(1) Three months in case of loans with tenor of up to 2 years;
(2) Six months in case of loans with tenor of more than 2 years.
Provided that in case of loans where security does not exist or security cannot be
registered with CERSAI, the MHP shall be calculated from the date of first repayment
of the loan.
Provided further that in case of transfer of project loans, the MHP shall be calculated
from the date of commencement of commercial operations of the project being
financed.
Provided further that in case of loans acquired from other entities by a transferor, such
loans cannot be transferred before completion of six months from the date on which
the loan was taken into the books of the transferor.
Provided further that the transfer of receivables, acquired as part of ‘factoring business’
as defined under the Factoring Regulation Act, 2011, will be exempted from the above
specified MHP requirement subject to fulfilment of following conditions:
(i) The residual maturity of such receivables, at the time of transfer, should not be
more than 90 days, and
(ii) As specified under Paragraphs 13 and 39 of these directions, the transferee
conducts proper credit appraisal of the drawee of the bill, before acquiring such
receivables
44. The above MHP requirement is not applicable to loans transferred by the
arranging NBFC to other lenders under a syndication arrangement.
C. Capital Adequacy and Other prudential norms
45. Any loss or profit arising because of transfer of loans, which is realised, should
be accounted for accordingly and reflected in the Profit & Loss account of the transferor
for the accounting period during which the transfer is completed. However, unrealised
17

profits, if any, arising out of such transfers, shall be deducted from CET 1 capital or
net owned funds for meeting regulatory capital adequacy requirements till the maturity
of such loans.
46. In case of transfer of a pool of loans, the transferee(s), and the transferor(s) in
case of retention of economic interest, should maintain borrower-wise accounts. Thus,
the exposures of the transferor(s) and the transferee(s) would be to the individual
obligors in a pool of loans.
47. The capital adequacy treatment for loans acquired, in respect of the economic
interest held by the transferor and transferee(s) post such transfer, will be as per the
instructions applicable to loans directly originated by the lender.
48. Transferee(s) may, if they so desire, have the pools of loans externally rated
before acquiring so as to have a third-party view of the credit quality of the pool in
addition to their own due diligence. However, such external rating shall be done ex-
post the transferee(s)’ due diligence and such rating cannot substitute for the due
diligence that the transferee(s) are required to perform.
49. The transferee(s), as well as transferor(s) shall apply the extant income
recognition, asset classification and provisioning as well as exposure norms, on
individual obligor basis in all cases to the extent of retained economic interest.
50. In case of pool of loans acquired, transferee(s) should put in place mechanisms
to enable application of relevant prudential norms on individual obligor basis. Such
mechanisms may also include relying on the details obtained from the servicing facility
provider. However, such mechanisms must provide for adequate checks by the
transferee(s)’ concurrent auditors, internal auditors and statutory auditors. All relevant
information and audit reports should be available for verification by the supervisors
from RBI during supervision of the transferee(s).
51. For permitted transferees, the acquired loans will be carried at acquisition cost
unless it is more than the outstanding principal at the time of the transfer, in which
case the premium paid, should be amortised based on straight line method or effective
interest rate method, as considered appropriate by the individual permitted transferee.
However, the outstanding/unamortised premium need not be deducted from capital.
18

52. In cases where a transferor makes representations and warranties concerning
loans transferred, the transferor will not be required to hold capital against such
representations and warranties provided the following conditions are satisfied:
(1) Any representation or warranty is provided only by way of a formal written
agreement;
(2) The representation or warranty refers to an existing state of facts that is capable
of being verified by the transferor at the time the loans are transferred;
(3) The representation or warranty is not open-ended and, in particular, does not
relate to the future creditworthiness of the loans/underlying borrowers;
(4) The exercise of a representation or warranty, if any, requiring a transferor to
replace loans (or any parts thereof) transferred, on grounds covered in the
representation or warranty, must be:
(i) undertaken within 30 days of the transfer of loans; and
(ii) conducted on the same terms and conditions as the original transfer.
Provided that upon such replacement, the transferor shall apply the asset
classification and provisioning norms as if the reacquired exposures had not been
transferred in the first place.
(5) A transferor that is required to pay damages for breach of representation or
warranty can do so provided the agreement to pay damages meets the following
conditions:
(i) the onus of proof for breach of representation or warranty remains at all times
with the party so alleging;
(ii) the party alleging the breach serves a written Notice of Claim on the transferor,
specifying the basis for the claim; and
(iii) damages are limited to losses directly incurred as a result of the breach.
19

Chapter IV - Transfer of stressed loans
A. General Requirements
53. The instructions contained in this Chapter would cover transfer of stressed
loans, including transfer to ARCs.
54. The transfer of stressed loans must be done through assignment or novation
only; loan participation is not permitted in the case of stressed loans.
55. The Board approved policies of NBFCs on transfer and / or acquisition of
stressed loans shall, inter alia, cover the following aspects:
(1) Norms and procedure for transfer or acquisition of such loans;
(2) Valuation methodology to be followed to ensure that the realisable value of
stressed loans, including the realisability of the underlying security interest, if available,
is reasonably estimated;
(3) Delegation of powers to various functionaries for taking decision on the transfer
or acquisition of the loans;
(4) Stated objectives for acquiring stressed assets;
(5) Risk premium to be applied for the purpose of Paragraph 71; etc.
56. The policy on transfer of stressed loans shall be based on the following
principles:
(1) The process of identification of stressed loans beyond a specified value, as may
be determined by a NBFC’s policy, for transfer shall follow a top-down approach i.e.,
the head office/corporate office of the NBFC shall be actively involved in identification
of stressed loans for transfer;
(2) At a minimum, all loans classified as NPA above a threshold amount decided
by the Board/Board Committee shall be reviewed by the Board/Board Committee at
periodic intervals and a view, with documented rationale, be taken on transfer or
otherwise. The loans identified for transfer shall be listed for the purpose of transfer as
indicated above.
57. Transferors should have clear policies with regard to valuation of loan
exposures proposed to be transferred. The basis or the grounds which will determine
20

the type of valuation used - internal or external - must be clearly specified in the policy.
The discount rate used by the transferor in the internal valuation exercise shall also be
spelt out in the policy. This may be either cost of equity or average cost of funds or
opportunity cost or some other relevant rate, subject to a floor of the contracted interest
rate charged. However, in case the credit exposure being transferred (without netting
for provisions), singly, jointly, or severally, is ₹100 crore or more, the transferor shall
obtain two external valuation reports. The cost of valuation exercise, external or
otherwise, shall be borne by the transferor.
58. In general, NBFC shall transfer stressed loans, including through bilateral sales,
only to permitted transferees and ARCs.
59. The manner of transfer must be in terms of the Board approved policy of the
transferor. NBFCs may also use e-auction platforms, wherever available, for
transferring their loans.
60. However, when negotiated on a bilateral basis, such negotiations must
necessarily be followed by an auction through Swiss Challenge method if the
aggregate exposure (including investment exposure) of lenders to the borrower/s
whose loan is being transferred is ₹100 crore or more. In all other cases, the bilateral
negotiations shall be subject to the price discovery and value maximisation
approaches adopted by the transferor as part of the Board approved policy described
in paragraph 55, which may also include Swiss Challenge method. The broad
guidelines to be followed for the Swiss Challenge Method are given in paragraph 89
to paragraph 92.
Provided that in case of transfer of stressed loans undertaken as a resolution plan
under the Reserve Bank of India (Non-Banking Financial Companies – Resolution of
Stressed Assets) Directions, 2025 with the approval of signatories to the intercreditor
agreement (ICA) representing 75 per cent by value of total outstanding credit facilities
(fund based as well non-fund based) and 60 per cent of signatories by number, for the
exit of all signatories to the ICA from the stressed loan exposure, Swiss Challenge
method would be mandatory irrespective of the above exposure threshold.
61. The transferor shall ensure that subsequent to transfer of the stressed loans,
they do not assume any operational, legal or any other type of risks relating to the
transferred loans including additional funding or commitments to the borrower /
21

transferee(s) with reference to the loan transferred. Subsequently, fresh exposure may
be taken on the borrower after a cooling period laid down in the respective Board
approved policy of the transferor, which in any case, shall not be less than 12 months
from the date of such transfer.
62. Notwithstanding the stipulations in paragraph 58 to paragraph 61, if the transfer
of stressed loans are undertaken as a resolution plan under the Reserve Bank of India
(Non-Banking Financial Companies – Resolution of Stressed Assets) Directions,
2025 resulting in an exit of all lenders specified at Paragraph 12(4) from the stressed
loan exposure, such transfer is permitted to any class of entities, including a corporate
entity, that are permitted to take on loan exposures in terms of a statutory provision or
under the regulations issued by a financial sector regulator.
(1) Explanation: The class of entities to which lenders are permitted to transfer
stressed loan exposures included (a) Commercial Banks excluding Local Area Banks,
Regional Rural Banks and Small Finance Banks; (b) AIFIs, (c) NBFCs including HFCs;
(d) ARCs registered with the Reserve Bank of India under Section 3 of the SARFAESI
Act 2002; (e) A company, as defined in sub-section (20) of Section 2 of the Companies
Act, 2013 other than a financial service provider as defined in sub-section (17) of
Section 3 of the Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code, 2016. Acquisition of loan exposures
by such companies shall be subject to the relevant provisions of the Companies Act,
2013.
(2) The class of entities will be updated as and when any new class of entities is
permitted by the respective financial sector regulators.
(3) In case such transferee(s) are neither ARC nor permitted transferee, the
transfer shall be additionally subject to the following conditions:
(i) The transferee entity should be incorporated in India or registered with a
financial sector regulator in India (Securities and Exchange Board of India,
Insurance Regulatory and Development Authority of India, Pension Fund
Regulatory and Development Authority, and International Financial Services
Centers Authority).
(ii) The transferee(s) should not be classified as a non-performing account (NPA)
by any lending institution at the time of such transfer;
22

(iii) The transferee(s) should not fund the loan acquisition through loans from
lenders specified at paragraph 12(4).
(iv) The lenders specified at paragraph 12(4) should not take any credit/investment
exposure apart from working capital facilities (which are not in the nature of term
loans) to the borrower whose loan account is transferred, for at least three years
from the date of such transfer.
Provided that the working capital facilities are sanctioned by the NBFCs which
are not transferors.
(v) Further, for at least three years from the date of such transfer, the lenders
specified at paragraph 12(4) should not take any credit/investment exposure to
the transferee(s) for deployment, either directly or indirectly, into the operations
of the borrower. For this purpose, borrower shall mean the legal entities to which
the transferor(s) had exposure which was transferred to the transferee(s) as a
part of the resolution plan, and may include, but is not limited to, a special
purpose vehicle having a legal-entity status set up for a project.
Explanation: The entity permitted to take on loan exposures by its statutory or
regulatory framework, as referred to in this paragraph, would have to be
separately enabled by its regulatory or statutory framework for taking on loan
exposures, and then listed in the class of entities by the Reserve Bank of India.
The above paragraph merely permits the lender to transfer stressed loans
under a resolution plan to such entities which are already permitted to take on
loan exposures. The respective financial sector regulators shall put in place a
framework for this purpose in consultation with the Reserve Bank of India.
63. The transferor(s) must provide adequate time for due diligence by prospective
acquirers, which may vary as per the size of the loan.
64. The loan transfer agreement shall clearly specify that in the event an ICA is
required to be signed in terms of the Reserve Bank of India (Non-Banking Financial
Companies – Resolution of Stressed Assets) Directions, 2025 the transferee shall sign
the ICA as and when required.
23

65. The transferor(s) shall ensure that no transfer of a stressed loan is made at a
contingent price whereby in the event of shortfall in the realization of the agreed price,
the transferor(s) would have to bear a part of the shortfall.
66. The transferor shall transfer the stressed loans to transferee(s) other than ARCs
only on cash basis. The entire transfer consideration should be received not later than
at the time of transfer of loans, and the loan can be taken out of the books of the
transferor only on receipt of the entire transfer consideration. NBFCs which are
required to comply with IndAS shall continue to be guided by the Standards and the
ICAI Advisories regarding recognition of the consideration received pursuant to the
transfer.
67. The NBFC is permitted to treat a pool of stressed loans acquired on a portfolio
basis as a single asset in their books provided that the pool consists of homogeneous
personal loans. Homogeneity should be assessed on the basis of common risk drivers,
including similar risk factors and risk profiles. In all other cases, the stressed loans
acquired shall be treated as separate assets for the purpose of prudential
requirements such as asset classification, capital computation, income recognition etc.
Explanation: If a portfolio of stressed homogeneous personal loans acquired is treated
as a single asset by the transferee, the portfolio shall be treated as a single asset for
the purpose of Paragraph 71 as well.
68. The reporting obligation, if any, to Credit Information Companies in respect of
the stressed loans acquired will be with the transferee(s), if the latter is a credit
institution as defined in sub-section (f) of Section 2 of the Credit Information
Companies (Regulation) Act, 2005.
69. If the transferee(s), except ARCs, have no existing exposure to the borrower
whose stressed loan account is acquired, the acquired stressed loan shall be classified
as “Standard” by the transferee(s). Thereafter, the asset classification status of the
loan acquired, shall be determined by the record of recovery in the books of the
transferee(s) with reference to cash flows estimated at the time of transfer of the loan.
70. In case the transferee(s), except ARCs, have existing exposure to the borrower
whose stressed loan account is acquired, the asset classification of the acquired
exposure shall be the same as the existing asset classification of the borrower with the
24

transferee. This treatment shall be applicable even if such acquisition is pursuant to
the transferee being a successful resolution applicant under the Insolvency and
Bankruptcy Code, 2016.
71. The NBFC acquiring stressed loans shall make provisions for such loans as per
the asset classification status in its books upon acquisition. Regardless of the asset
classification, if the net present value of the cash flows estimated while acquiring the
loan is less than the consideration paid for acquiring the loan, provisions shall be
maintained to the extent of the difference. For this purpose, the discount factor shall
be the actual interest rate charged to the borrower as per the original loan contract
plus a risk premium to be determined as per the transferee’s Board approved policy
considering the asset classification of the loan on the books of the transferor. The risk
premium will be subject to a floor of 3 per cent.
Provided that NBFCs preparing financial statements as per IndAS, shall continue to
make provisions as required as per IndAS. However, they shall concurrently assess
the provisioning required as per the methodology explained above and provisions so
required shall be included in the computation of the prudential floor as prescribed
under the Reserve Bank of India (Non-Banking Financial Companies – Financial
Statements: Presentation and Disclosures) Directions, 2025.
72. NBFCs which are required to comply with Indian Accounting Standards (IndAS)
shall continue to be guided by the Standards and the advisories issued by the Institute
of Chartered Accountants of India (ICAI Advisories) in case of any inconsistencies
between these directions and the Standards.
73. In the case of ARC, the asset classification of stressed loans acquired by it and
the associated provisions to be maintained shall be continued to be guided by the
extant instructions as applicable to them in this regard.
74. The NBFC shall hold the acquired stressed loans in its books for a period of at
least six months before transferring to other lenders. Additionally, NBFCs are generally
prohibited from acquiring loans that had been transferred by other lenders as stressed
loans in the previous six months.
Provided that this paragraph shall not apply if the transfer of a stressed loan is to an
ARC or is undertaken as a resolution plan under the Reserve Bank of India (Non-
25

Banking Financial Companies – Resolution of Stressed Assets) Directions, 2025 with
the approval of signatories to the ICA representing 75 per cent by value of total
outstanding credit facilities (fund based as well non-fund based) and 60 per cent of
signatories by number for the exit of all signatories to the ICA from the stressed loan
exposure.
B. Additional requirements for transfer of NPAs
75. The transferor shall continue to pursue the staff accountability aspects as per
the existing instructions in respect of the NPAs transferred to other lenders.
76. In respect of NPAs acquired from other lenders, the cash flows received by the
transferee from holding such asset shall first be used to amortise the funded
outstanding in the books of the transferee in respect of the loan till the acquisition cost
is recovered. The cash flows in excess of the acquisition cost, if any, can be recognised
as profit.
77. The NBFC shall assign 100% risk weight to the NPAs acquired from other
lenders as long as the loans are classified as ‘standard’ upon acquisition. If the loans
are classified as NPA, risk weights as applicable to NPA shall be applicable.
C. Transfer of loans to Asset Reconstruction Companies
78. Subject to the provisions of the Reserve Bank of India (Asset Reconstruction
Companies) Directions, 2025 all stressed loans which are in default in the books of the
transferors are permitted to be transferred to ARCs. This shall include loan exposures
classified as fraud as on the date of transfer provided that the responsibilities of the
transferor with respect to continuous reporting, monitoring, filing of complaints with law
enforcement agencies and proceedings related to such complaints shall also be
transferred to the ARC. The transfer of such loan exposures to an ARC, however, does
not absolve the transferor from fixing the staff accountability as required under the
extant instructions on frauds.
79. In case of specific stressed loans, where it is considered necessary,
transferor(s) shall be free to enter into agreement with the ARC to share, in an agreed
proportion, any surplus realised by the ARC from the concerned stressed loan. In such
cases, the terms of transfer should provide for a report from the ARC to the
26

transferor(s) on the value realised from the loan. Transferor(s) shall not account for
the profit until it has materialised.
80. When the stressed loan is transferred to ARC at a price below the NBV at the
time of transfer, NBFC shall debit the shortfall to the profit and loss account for the
year in which the transfer has taken place. An NBFC is permitted to use countercyclical
or floating provisions for meeting any shortfall on transfer of stressed loan when the
transfer is at a price below the NBV.
81. On the other hand, when the stressed loan is transferred to an ARC for a value
higher than the NBV at the time of transfer, NBFC shall reverse the excess provision
on transfer to the profit and loss account in the year the amounts are received and
only when the sum of cash received by way of initial consideration and / or redemption
or transfer of Security Receipts (SR) / Pass Through Certificates (PTCs)/ other
securities issued by ARCs is higher than the NBV of the loan at the time of transfer.
Further, such reversal shall be limited to the extent to which cash received exceeds
the NBV of the loan at the time of transfer.
(1) Notwithstanding the provisions contained in paragraph 81, the NBFC can reverse
the entire excess provision [viz. sale consideration (-) NBV] to the Profit and Loss
Account in the year of transfer if the sale consideration comprises only of cash and
SRs guaranteed by the Government of India.
Provided that, the non-cash component of the excess provision [viz. excess provision
(-) cash received at the time of transfer] shall be deducted from CET 1 capital or net
owned funds, and no dividends shall be paid out of this component.
82. Investments by lenders in SRs / PTCs / other securities issued by ARCs shall
be valued periodically by reckoning the Net Asset Value (NAV) declared by the ARC
based on the recovery ratings received for such instruments.
Provided that when transferors invest in the SRs/PTCs issued by ARCs in respect of
the stressed loans transferred by them to the ARC, the transferors shall carry the
investment in their books on an ongoing basis, until its transfer or realization, at lower
of the redemption value of SRs arrived based on the NAV as above, and the NBV of
the transferred stressed loan at the time of transfer.
27

83. If the investment by the transferor in SRs issued against loans transferred by it
is more than 10 percent of all SRs issued against the transferred asset, then the
valuation of the SRs on the books of the transferor shall be the lower of the following:
(1) value arrived at in terms of paragraph 82; and
(2) face value of the SRs reduced by the notional provisioning rate applicable if the
loans had continued on the books of the transferor.
Provided that in respect of valuation of investment in SRs outstanding in the books of
NBFCs, as on September 24, 2021, the following treatment shall be applicable:
(i) The difference between the carrying value of such SRs and the valuation arrived
at in terms of this clause, as on the next financial reporting date after the date
of issuance of these directions, may be provided over a five-year period starting
with the financial year ending March 31, 2022 – i.e. from FY 2021-22 till FY
2025-26.
(ii) Subsequent valuation of investments in such SRs on an ongoing basis shall,
however, be strictly in terms of the provisions of these directions.
(iii) NBFCs concerned shall put in place a board approved plan to ensure that the
provisioning made in each of the financial years in compliance of sub-clause (a)
above is not less than one fifth of the required provisioning on this count.
(iv) Valuation of investments in SRs made by all lenders after the issuance of these
directions shall be strictly in terms of the provisions of these directions.
84. (1) Notwithstanding the provisions contained in paragraph 83, or the proviso to
paragraph 82, SRs guaranteed by the Government of India shall be valued periodically
by reckoning the Net Asset Value (NAV) declared by the ARC based on the recovery
ratings received for such instruments.
(2) However, any unrealized gain recognized in the Profit and Loss Account on
account of fair valuation of such investments shall be deducted from CET 1 capital, or
net owned funds and no dividends shall be paid out of such unrealized gains.
(3) Any SRs outstanding after the final settlement of the government guarantee or
the expiry of the guarantee period, whichever is earlier, shall be valued at ₹1.
28

(4) In the event of the SRs being converted to any other form of instruments as part
of resolution, then the valuation and provisioning thereof, for such instruments shall be
governed by the provisions as laid down under Reserve Bank of India (Non-Banking
Financial Companies – Resolution of Stressed Assets) Directions, 2025.
85. SRs/PTCs which are not redeemed as at the end of the resolution period (i.e.,
five years or eight years as the case may be) shall be treated as loss asset in books
of the lender and fully provided for.
86. The valuation, classification and other norms applicable to investment in non-
SLR instruments prescribed by RBI from time to time shall be applicable to lender’s
investment in debentures/ bonds/ SRs /PTCs issued by ARC. However, if any of the
above instruments issued by ARC is limited to the actual realisation of the financial
assets assigned to the instruments in the concerned scheme, the NBFC shall reckon
the NAV obtained from ARC from time to time, for valuation of such investments.
87. There is no prohibition on NBFCs from taking over standard accounts from
ARCs. Accordingly, in cases where ARCs have successfully implemented a resolution
plan for the stressed loans acquired by them, NBFCs may, at its discretion and with
appropriate due diligence, take over such loans after the period equivalent to the
‘monitoring period’ as defined in Reserve Bank of India (Non-Banking Financial
Companies – Resolution of Stressed Assets) Directions, 2025, provided that the
account performed satisfactorily, as defined in the circular ibid during the said
‘monitoring period’. NBFCs shall lay down a board approved policy containing various
aspects governing such take overs viz., type of assets that may be taken over, due
diligence requirements, viability criteria, performance requirement of asset, etc. as a
part of the requirements under Paragraph 55. A NBFC cannot at any point of time
acquire from ARCs the loan exposures they have themselves earlier transferred.
88. Where stressed loans are taken over by ARCs as agents for recovery in
exchange for a fee, the loans will not be removed from the books of the transferors but
realisations as and when received shall be credited to the loan accounts. The
transferors shall continue making provisions for the loan in the normal course.
29

D. Price Discovery through Swiss Challenge Method
89. Subject to the requirements under Paragraph 60, the NBFC shall put in place a
board approved policy on adoption of Swiss Challenge Method for transfer of their
stressed loans.
(1) The policy should specify the conditions under which NBFC(s) may opt for
Swiss Challenge method, which could be based on parameters such as a tolerance
limit for extent of haircut required by the lender(s) in the base-bid (as specified in
Paragraph 92), for instance, or any objective parameter identified by the NBFC(s)’
Board.
(2) The policy should also specify the minimum mark-up over the base-bid required
for the challenger bid (as specified in Paragraph 92) to be considered by the NBFC(s),
which in any case, shall not be less than five per cent and shall not be more than 15
per cent. For this purpose, mark-up shall be the difference between the challenger bid
and the base-bid expressed as a percentage of the base-bid.
90. In case of transfer of stressed loans undertaken as a resolution plan under
the Reserve Bank of India (Non-Banking Financial Companies – Resolution of
Stressed Assets) Directions, 2025 with the approval of signatories to the ICA, the
minimum mark-up over the base-bid required for the challenger bid to be considered
by the lenders specified at paragraph 12(4) above, shall be decided with the approval
of signatories to the ICA representing 75 per cent by value of total outstanding credit
facilities (fund based as well non-fund based) and 60 per cent of signatories by
number. The above decision will prevail over any individual policy of any of the
signatories to the ICA.
91. On an ongoing basis, the NBFC should identify the stressed loans which will be
offered for transfer and an authenticated list of such loans shall be maintained by the
lenders. The list may, at the discretion of the lender, be disclosed to prospective bidder
on entering into confidentiality agreement.
92. The broad contours of the Swiss Challenge Method are as under:
(1) A prospective transferee interested in acquiring a specific stressed loan may
offer a bid to the NBFC(s), which shall be termed as the base-bid.
30

(2) The NBFC(s) shall then publicly call for counter bids from other perspective
buyers, on comparable terms, by disclosing the essential elements of the base-bid and
also clearly specifying the minimum mark-up (as specified in Paragraph 89) that would
be acceptable.
(3) If no counter bid crossed the minimum mark-up specified in the invitation, the
base-bid becomes the winning bid.
(4) If counter bid(s) cross the minimum mark-up specified in the invitation, the
highest counter bid becomes the challenger bid. The prospective transferee who
provided the base-bid is then invited to match the challenger bid. If the prospective
transferee who provided the base-bid either matches the challenger bid or bids higher
than the challenger bid, such bid shall become the winning bid; else, the challenger
bid shall be the winning bid.
(5) The NBFC(s) will then have the following two options:
(i) Transfer the loan to winning bidder, as determined above;
(ii) If the NBFC decides not to transfer the loan to winning bidder, the NBFC will be
required to make immediate provision on the account to the extent of the higher
of the following:
(a) The discount on the book value quoted in the challenger bid, and
(b) The provisioning required as per extant asset classification and
provisioning norms.
E. Disclosures and Reporting
93. The NBFCs should be guided by Reserve Bank of India (Non-Banking Financial
Companies – Financial Statements: Presentation and Disclosures) Directions, 2025
for all disclosure related requirements.
94. NBFCs shall report each loan transfer transaction undertaken under these
directions to a trade reporting platform as notified by the Reserve Bank of India. The
detailed instructions in this regard will be issued separately. In anticipation of the same,
NBFC shall maintain a database of loan transfer transactions with adequate MIS
concerning each transaction till the reporting platform is notified and the related
instructions are issued.
31

32

PART B: CO-LENDING ARRANGEMENTS
95. These Directions shall come into force from January 1, 2026, or from any earlier
date as decided by a RE as per its internal policy (“effective date”). Any new CLA
entered into after the effective date shall be in compliance with these Directions.
96. Existing CLAs (i.e., the lending arrangements executed before the date of
issuance of these Directions) and new CLAs entered into prior to the effective date
shall be in compliance with the extant regulations.
Chapter I - Scope and Definition
97. The instructions of this Part shall be applicable to Co-Lending Arrangements
(CLAs) entered into by Non-Banking Financial Companies with the following set of
regulated entities (REs):
(1) Scheduled Commercial Banks (excluding Small Finance Banks, Local Area
Banks, and Regional Rural Banks);
(2) All-India Financial Institutions; and,
(3) Non-Banking Financial Companies (including Housing Finance Companies).
98. Digital lending arrangements shall continue to be governed by Reserve Bank
of India (Non-Banking Financial Companies – Credit Facilities) Directions, 2025 as
amended from time to time.
Provided that, any digital lending arrangement involving co-lending by the REs shall,
without derogation to Reserve Bank of India (Non-Banking Financial Companies –
Credit Facilities) Directions, 2025, be guided by the provisions of these Directions.
99. The instructions of this part shall not apply to loans sanctioned under multiple
Banking, consortium lending, or syndication.
100. Save as otherwise permitted in terms of these Directions, no NBFC shall enter
into any CLA which is not compliant with these Directions.
101. Definitions: For the purpose of these Directions, CLA refers to an
arrangement, formalised through an ex-ante agreement, between a RE which is
originating the loans (‘originating RE’) and another RE which is co-lending (‘partner
RE’), to jointly fund a portfolio of loans, comprising of either secured or unsecured
loans, in a pre-agreed proportion, involving revenue and risk sharing.
33

34

Chapter II - Prudential Norms
A. General Conditions
102. NBFCs under a CLA shall be required to retain a minimum 10 per cent share of
the individual loans in its books.
103. The credit policy of NBFCs shall suitably incorporate provisions relating to
CLAs, including the internal limit for the proportion of their lending portfolio under
CLAs; target borrower segments; due diligence of the partner entities; customer
service and grievance redressal mechanism.
104. The agreement to be entered between the CLA partners shall include detailed
terms and conditions of the arrangement; the criteria for selection of borrowers;
specific product lines and areas of operation; fees payable for lending services, if any;
provisions related to segregation of responsibilities; time-frame for exchanging critical
information; customer interface and customer protection issues and grievance
redressal mechanism.
Explanation: Lending service shall refer to the set of activities related to lending such
as customer acquisition, underwriting, pricing, servicing, monitoring, and recovery of
specific loan or loan portfolio, etc. performed by the REs or their agents (in conformity
with extant outsourcing guidelines issued by the Reserve Bank of India).
105. The loan agreement signed with the borrower shall make an upfront disclosure
regarding the segregation of the roles and responsibilities (such as sourcing, and
servicing) of concerned REs, including clear identification of the entity being the single
point of interface with the customer. Any subsequent change in customer interface
shall only be done after prior intimation to the borrower. The loan-agreement shall also
appropriately disclose suitable provisions related to customer protection, and
grievance redressal mechanism.
106. All required details of CLA shall be disclosed appropriately to the concerned
borrower as laid down on ‘Key Facts Statement (KFS) for Loans & Advances’ under
Reserve Bank of India (Non-Banking Financial Companies – Responsible Business
Conduct) Directions, 2025.
107. NBFCs shall adhere to the applicable accounting standards, while booking of
unrealised profit under CLAs, if applicable. However, such profits, shall be deducted
35

from CET 1 capital or net owned funds for meeting regulatory capital adequacy
requirement till the maturity of such loans.
B. Interest Rate and Other Fees/ Charges
108. The interest rate and any other fees / charges on the underlying loans charged
to the borrower shall be based on the contractual agreement, subject to the regulatory
norms applicable to the REs. Specifically, the final interest rate charged to the
borrower shall be the blended interest rate which is calculated as an average rate of
interest derived from the interest rates charged by respective REs, as per their internal
lending policies and risk profile of the same or similar borrower, weighted by the
proportionate funding share of concerned REs under CLA.
109. Any change in rates by respective REs under CLA will be made as per their
credit policy and extant regulatory norms, and the same shall be reflected in the
updated blended rate and communicated to the borrower.
110. Any fees / charges payable by the borrower in addition to the blended interest
rate shall be incorporated in computation of annual percentage rate (APR) and
disclosed appropriately in the KFS as prescribed in the paragraph 106 of these
Directions.
111. As part of the credit policy, the NBFC shall lay down the objective criteria for
fees/ charges payable for lending services, depending upon relevant factors such as
the nature of service provided, quantum of loan, etc. Such fees/ charges shall not
involve, directly or indirectly, any element of credit enhancement/ default loss
guarantee unless permitted otherwise.
Explanation
(1) Credit enhancement shall have the same meaning as defined in Part A of this
Direction.
(2) Default loss guarantee is a contractual arrangement, called by whatever name,
between the originating RE and partner RE, under which the former guarantees to
compensate the latter, for loss due to default up to a certain percentage of the loan
portfolio of the RE, specified upfront. Any other implicit guarantee of similar nature
linked to the performance of the loan portfolio of the RE and specified upfront, shall
also be covered under the definition of DLG
36

C. Operational Arrangements
112. The CLA shall entail an irrevocable commitment on the part of partner RE to
take into its books, on back to back basis, its share of the individual loans as originated
by the originating RE.
113. The CLA shall ensure that the respective shares of the REs are reflected in the
books of both REs without delay after disbursement by the originating RE to the
borrower, in any case not later than 15 calendar days from the date of disbursement.
114. Originating NBFC shall also ensure that it transfers the loan under CLA only to
the partner RE, as per the ex-ante agreement and as specified in the KFS at the time
of sanction of loan.
115. If the originating NBFC is unable to transfer the share of the exposure to the
partner RE under CLA within 15 calendar days for any reason, then the loan/s shall
remain on the books of the originating NBFC and can be transferred to other eligible
lenders only under the provisions of Part A of this Direction.
116. Each RE (including NBFC) shall maintain a borrower’s account individually for
its respective share.
117. All transactions (disbursements / repayments) between the REs, as well as with
the borrower, shall be routed through an escrow account maintained with a bank
(which could also be one of the REs involved in CLA). The agreement shall clearly
specify the manner of appropriation between the originating and partner REs.
118. The loans under the CLA shall be included in the scope of internal/ statutory
audit in each RE to ensure adherence to their respective internal guidelines, terms of
the agreement and applicable regulatory requirements.
119. NBFCs shall implement a business continuity plan to ensure uninterrupted
service to their borrowers till repayment of the loans, in the event of termination of CLA
between the REs.
120. A NBFC involved under CLA shall comply with the prescribed norms under the
Reserve Bank of India (Non-Banking Financial Companies – Know Your Customer)
Directions, 2025 as amended from time to time. NBFC may rely upon the originating
RE for “Customer Identification Process” as per the provisions of the said Directions
on KYC.
37

121. NBFCs shall be guided by the fair practice code and grievance redressal
mechanism as applicable to them.
D. Reporting to credit information companies (CICs)
122. NBFCs shall adhere to the extant requirements of reporting to CICs for their
share of the loan account, as per the provisions of the Credit Information Companies
(Regulation) Act, 2005 and the Rules and Regulations issued by RBI therein, from time
to time.
E. Default Loss Guarantee
123. Originating NBFC may provide default loss guarantee up to five per cent of
loans outstanding in respect of loans under CLA. Provision of such default loss
guarantee shall be governed mutatis mutandis in terms of Reserve Bank of India (Non-
Banking Financial Companies – Credit Facilities) Directions, 2025 as amended from
time to time.
F. Asset Classification Norms
124. NBFCs shall apply a borrower-level asset classification for their respective
exposures to a borrower under CLA, implying that if either of the REs classifies its
exposure to a borrower under CLA as SMA / NPA on account of default in the CLA
exposure, the same classification shall be applicable to the exposure of the other RE
to the borrower under CLA. NBFCs shall put in place a robust mechanism for sharing
relevant information in this regard on a near-real time basis, and in any case latest by
end of the next working day.
G. Transfer of Loan Exposures
125. Any subsequent transfer of loan exposures originated under CLA to third
parties, or any inter-se transfer of such loan exposures by NBFCs, shall be strictly in
compliance with the provisions of Part A of this Direction. Such transfers to a third
party, however, can be done only with the mutual consent of both the originating and
partner REs.
H. Disclosures
126. In addition to the applicable disclosure requirements under extant regulations,
NBFCs shall also prominently disclose on their website, a list of all active CLA partners.
38

127. NBFCs shall also make appropriate disclosures in their financial statements,
under ‘Notes to Accounts’, relating to necessary details of CLAs on an aggregate
basis. The details may inter alia include quantum of CLAs, weighted average rate of
interest, fees charged / paid, broad sectors in which CLA was made, performance of
loans under CLA, details related to default loss guarantee, if any, etc. The disclosure
shall be done on annual basis or as applicable to concerned NBFCs.
39

PART C: REPEAL AND OTHER PROVISIONS
A. Repeal and saving
128. With the issue of these Directions, the existing Directions, instructions, and
guidelines relating to Transfer and Distribution of Credit Risk as applicable to Non-
Banking Financial Companies stands repealed, as communicated vide circular
DOR.RRC.REC.302/33-01-010/2025-26 dated November 28, 2025. The Directions,
instructions and guidelines repealed prior to the issuance of these Directions shall
continue to remain repealed.
129. Notwithstanding such repeal, any action taken or purported to have been taken,
or initiated under the repealed Directions, instructions, or guidelines shall continue to
be governed by the provisions thereof. All approvals or acknowledgments granted
under these repealed lists shall be deemed as governed by these Directions. Further,
the repeal of these directions, instructions, or guidelines shall not in any way
prejudicially affect:
(1) any right, obligation or liability acquired, accrued, or incurred thereunder;
(2) any, penalty, forfeiture, or punishment incurred in respect of any
contravention committed thereunder;
(3) any investigation, legal proceeding, or remedy in respect of any such right,
privilege, obligation, liability, penalty, forfeiture, or punishment as aforesaid;
and any such investigation, legal proceedings or remedy may be instituted,
continued, or enforced and any such penalty, forfeiture or punishment may
be imposed as if those directions, instructions, or guidelines had not been
repealed.
B. Application of other laws not barred
130. The provisions of these Directions shall be in addition to, and not in derogation
of the provisions of any other laws, rules, regulations, or directions, for the time being
in force.
C. Interpretations
131. For the purpose of giving effect to the provisions of these Directions or in order
to remove any difficulties in the application or interpretation of the provisions of these
Directions, the RBI may, if it considers necessary, issue necessary clarifications in
40

respect of any matter covered herein and the interpretation of any provision of these
Directions given by the RBI shall be final and binding.
(Vaibhav Chaturvedi)
Chief General Manager
41