भारतीय �रज़वर् बैंक
RESERVE BANK OF INDIA
RBI/DOR/2025-26/216
DOR.ACC.REC.No.135/21.04.018/2025-26 November 28, 2025
Reserve Bank of India (Payments Banks – Financial Statements: Presentation
and Disclosures) Directions, 2025 (Updated as on April 1, 2026)
Table of Contents
Chapter-I Preliminary.......................................................................................................... 3
A. Short title and commencement ............................................................................... 3
B. Applicability ............................................................................................................. 3
Chapter-II Balance Sheet and Profit and Loss Account ................................................... 4
A. Format of the Balance Sheet and Profit and Loss Account.................................. 4
B. Notes and instructions for compilation ................................................................. 4
C. Guidance on specific issues with respect to certain Accounting Standards .... 24
Chapter-III Disclosure in Financial Statements – Notes to Accounts ........................... 34
A. General ................................................................................................................... 34
B. Presentation ........................................................................................................... 34
C. Disclosure requirements ....................................................................................... 34
Chapter-IV Consolidated Financial Statements .............................................................. 54
Chapter-V Other Instructions ........................................................................................... 56
A. Inter-branch account - provisioning for net debit balance ................................. 56
B. Reconciliation of Nostro account and treatment of outstanding entries ........... 56
C. Transfer to / appropriation from Reserve funds .................................................. 57
D. Provisioning for fraud ........................................................................................... 58
E. Unreconciled balances .......................................................................................... 58
F. Deferred tax liability (DTL) on Special Reserve created under Section 36(1) (viii)
of the Income Tax Act, 1961 ......................................................................................... 58

G. Window dressing ................................................................................................... 59
Chapter-VI Repeal and Other Provisions ........................................................................ 60
A. Repeal and saving ................................................................................................. 60
B. Application of other laws not barred .................................................................... 60
C. Interpretations ....................................................................................................... 60
Annex I .............................................................................................................................. 62
Annex II ............................................................................................................................. 80
2

In exercise of the powers conferred by section 35A of the Banking Regulation
Act, 1949, and all other provisions / laws enabling the Reserve Bank of India (‘RBI’) in
this regard, RBI being satisfied that it is necessary and expedient in the public interest
so to do, hereby, issues the Directions hereinafter specified.
Chapter-I Preliminary
A. Short title and commencement
1. These Directions shall be called the Reserve Bank of India (Payments Banks –
Financial Statements: Presentation and Disclosures) Directions, 2025.
2. These Directions shall come into force with immediate effect.
B. Applicability
3. These Directions shall be applicable to Payments Banks (hereinafter collectively
referred to as 'banks' and individually as a 'bank').

Chapter-II Balance Sheet and Profit and Loss Account
A. Format of the Balance Sheet and Profit and Loss Account
4. In terms of the provisions of section 29 of the Banking Regulation Act, 1949, a
bank shall in respect of all business transacted by it prepare a balance sheet and
profit and loss account as on the last working day of the year or the period, as
the case may be, in the Forms set out in the Third Schedule of the Banking
Regulation Act, 1949. In exercise of the powers conferred by section 29(4) of the
Banking Regulation Act, 1949, the Government of India has specified the Forms
in the Third Schedule, vide notification S.O.240(E) dated March 26, 1992,
published in the Gazette of India. These are reproduced in Annex I to these
Directions.
B. Notes and instructions for compilation
5. A bank shall follow the general instructions for the compilation of balance sheet
and profit and loss account as specified in subparagraph (1) below. A bank shall
ensure strict compliance with the Accounting Standards notified under the
Companies (Accounting Standards) Rules, 2021, as amended from time to time,
subject to Directions / Guidelines issued by the RBI.
Note: Mere mention of an activity, transaction, or item in instructions for
compilation does not imply that it is permitted, and the bank shall refer to the
extant statutory and regulatory requirements while determining the permissibility
or otherwise of an activity or transaction.
(1) Instructions for compilation of balance sheet
Item Sch Coverage Notes and instructions for compilation
Capital 1 Nationalised Banks -
Capital (Fully owned
by Central
Government)
Banks incorporated -
outside India: Capital
Other Banks (Indian) Authorised, Issued, Subscribed, and
Called-up capital shall be given separately.
4

Authorised Capital Calls in arrears will be deducted from
(__ shares of ₹ ___
Called-up capital while the paid-up value of
each)
forfeited shares shall be added thus arriving
Issued Capital
(__ shares of ₹ ___ at the Paid-up capital. Where necessary,
each)
items which can be combined shall be
Subscribed Capital
shown under one head, for instance ‘Issued
(__ shares of ₹ ___
each) and Subscribed Capital’.
Called up Capital
Notes:
(__ shares of ₹ ___
each)
1. The changes in the above items, if any,
Less: Calls unpaid
during the year, say, fresh contribution
Add: Forfeited shares
made by Government, fresh issue of
Paid up Capital
capital, and capitalisation of reserves, etc.,
shall be explained in the notes.
2. Perpetual Non-Cumulative Preference
Shares (PNCPS) included as part of Tier 1
regulatory capital shall be included here.
Reserves 2 (I) Statutory Reserves Reserves created out of the profits in
and compliance with section 17(1) (read with
Surplus paragraph 20 of this Master Direction) or
any other section of the Banking Regulation
Act, 1949 shall be separately disclosed.
(II) Capital Reserves The expression ‘Capital Reserves’ shall not
include any amount regarded as free for
distribution through the Profit and Loss
Account. Surplus on revaluation shall be
treated as Capital Reserves.
(III) Share Premium Premium on issue of share capital shall be
shown separately under this head.
(IV) Revenue and Other The expression ‘Revenue Reserve’ shall
Reserves mean any reserve other than Capital
Reserve. This item will include all reserves,
other than those separately classified. The
5

expression ‘reserve’ shall not include any
amount retained by way of providing for
depreciation, renewals, or diminution in
value of assets or retained by way of
providing for any known liability. Investment
Fluctuation Reserve shall be shown under
this head.
(V) Balance in Profit and Includes balance of profit after
Loss Account appropriations. In case of loss the balance
shall be shown as a deduction.
Notes:
Movements in various categories of
reserves shall be shown as indicated in the
schedule.
Deposits 3 A.I) Demand Deposits
(i) From banks Includes all bank deposits repayable on
demand.
(ii) From others Includes all demand deposits of the non-
bank sectors.
Credit balances in overdrafts, deposits
payable at call, overdue deposits,
inoperative current accounts, matured time
deposits, cash certificates, and certificates
of deposits, etc., shall be included under
this category.
(II) Savings Bank Includes all savings bank deposits
Deposits (including inoperative savings bank
accounts)
(III) Term Deposits
6

(i) From banks
(ii) From others
B. i) Deposits of branches The total of these two items should match
in India the total deposits shown in the balance
sheet.
Deposits of branches
ii)
outside India Notes:
1. Interest payable on deposits which is
accrued but not due shall not be included
but shown under other liabilities.
2. Deposits from a bank will include
deposits from the banking system in India,
co-operative banks, and foreign banks
which may or may not have a presence in
India.
3. A bank shall disclose by way of a
footnote to this schedule, the amount of
deposits against which lien is marked out of
the total deposits. (For current and previous
year)
(I) Borrowings in India
(i) RBI Includes repo, other borrowings, or
Borrowin 4 refinance obtained from RBI.
gs
(ii) Other banks Includes repo, other borrowings, or
refinance obtained from banks (including
Co-operative banks) and balances in Repo
Account.
(iii) Other institutions and Includes borrowing / refinance obtained
agencies from Export-Import Bank of India,
NABARD, and other institutions, agencies
7

(including liability against participation
certificates-without risk sharing, if any) and
balances in Repo Account.
(II) Borrowings outside Includes borrowings from outside India.
India
Secured borrowings This item shall be shown separately.
included in above Includes secured borrowings / refinance in
India and outside India.
Notes:
1. The total of I and II should match the total
borrowings shown in the balance sheet.
2. Inter-office transactions shall not be
shown as borrowings.
3. Refinance obtained by a bank from RBI
and various institutions shall be shown
under the head ‘Borrowings’. Accordingly,
advances shall be shown at the gross
amount on the asset side.
4. The following shall be included here:
a) Perpetual Debt Instruments
b) Tier 2 Capital Instruments
c) Subordinated Debt.
Other 5 (I) Bills Payable Includes drafts, telegraphic transfers,
Liabilities traveller’s cheques, mail transfers payable,
and pay slips, bankers cheques, and other
Provisions miscellaneous items.
(II) Inter-office The inter-office adjustments balance, if in
adjustments (net) credit, shall be shown under this head. The
bank should first segregate the credit
entries outstanding for more than 5 years in
8

the inter-branch account and transfer them
to a separate Blocked Account which
should be shown under ‘Other Liabilities
and Provisions - Others’. While arriving at
the net amount of inter-branch transactions
for inclusion here, or Schedule 11, as the
case may be, the aggregate amount of
Blocked Account should be excluded and
only the amount representing the remaining
credit entries should be netted against debit
entries. Only net position of inter-office
accounts shall be shown here.
(III) Interest accrued Includes interest accrued but not due on
deposits and borrowings.
(IV) Others (including Includes net provision for income tax, other
provisions) taxes like interest tax (less advance
payment, tax deducted at source, etc.),
deferred tax (if after netting as per AS 22 is
a liability), floating provisions, and
contingency funds which are not disclosed
as reserves, but are actually in the nature
of reserves, other liabilities which are not
disclosed under any of the major heads
such as unclaimed dividend, provisions and
funds kept for specific purposes, unexpired
discount, outstanding charges like rent,
conveyance, etc. Aggregate Net Credit in
the Clearing Differences transferred to a
separate Blocked Account shall be shown
here. Outstanding credit entries in nostro
accounts transferred to Blocked Account
shall also be shown here.
9

Notes:
1. For arriving at the net balance of inter-
office adjustments all connected inter-office
accounts shall be aggregated and the net
balance only will be shown, representing
mostly items in transit and unadjusted
items.
2. The interest accruing on all deposits,
whether the payment is due or not, shall be
treated as a liability.
3. It is proposed to show only deposits
under the head ‘deposits’ and hence all
surplus provisions for contingency funds,
etc., which are not netted off against the
relative assets, shall be brought under the
head ‘Others (including provisions)’.
4. Provisions towards Standard Assets
shall not be netted from gross advances
and shown separately as ‘Provisions
against Standard Assets’ under ‘Others’ in
Schedule 5 of the Balance Sheet.
5. Where any item under the ‘Others
(including provisions)’ exceeds one per
cent of the total assets, particulars of all
such items shall be disclosed in the notes
to accounts.
ASSETS
Cash 6 (I) Cash in hand Includes cash in hand including foreign
and (including foreign currency notes.
balances currency notes)
with the
(II) Balances with RBI All type of reverse repos with the RBI
RBI
including those under Liquidity Adjustment
10

(i) in Current Account Facility shall be presented under sub-item
(ii) ‘in Other Accounts’.
(ii) in Other Accounts
Balances 7 (I) In India Includes all balances with banks in India,
with except Money at Call and Short Notice as
(i) Balances with banks
banks explained below.
(a) in Current Accounts
and
Balances in current account and other
money at (b) in Other Deposit
deposit accounts shall be shown
call and Accounts
separately.
short
notice (ii) Money at Call and Includes the following if they are for original
Short notice tenors up to and inclusive of 14 days:
(a) with banks (i) Money lent in the call / notice money
market
(b) with other institutions
(ii) Reverse Repo with banks and other
institutions
The balances in Reverse Repo A/C shall be
classified under Schedule 7 under item I (ii)
(a) or I (ii) (b) as appropriate.
(II) Outside India Includes balances held outside India. by the
Indian branches of the bank.
(i) in Current Accounts
The amounts held in ‘current accounts’ and
(ii) in Other Deposit
‘deposit accounts’ shall be shown
Accounts
separately.
(iii) Money at Call and
‘Money at Call and Short Notice’ outside
Short Notice
India includes deposits usually classified as
per that foreign jurisdiction’s laws,
regulations, or market practices as money
at call and short notice where such money
is lent.
Investme 8 (I) Investments in India
nts in
11

(i) Government Includes Central and State Government
securities Securities and Government Treasury Bills.
(ii) Other Approved Securities other than Government
Securities Securities, which have been specified by
the RBI as ‘approved securities’ under
section 5(a) of the Banking Regulation Act,
1949, shall be included here.
(iii) Shares Investments in shares of companies and
corporations not included in item (ii) shall
be included here.
(iv) Debentures and Investments in debentures (as defined by
Bonds the Companies Act, 2013) and bonds of
companies and corporations not included in
item (ii) shall be included here.
(v) Subsidiaries and / or Investments in joint ventures (including
Joint Ventures associates) shall be included here.
(vi) Others Residual investments, if any, like mutual
funds, gold, etc.
(II) Investments outside
India
(i) Government All foreign Government Securities including
Securities (including securities issued by local authorities shall
local authorities) be classified under this head.
(ii) Subsidiaries and / or All investments made in the share capital of
Joint ventures joint ventures abroad shall be classified
abroad under this head.
(iii) Other investments All other investments outside India shall be
shown under this head.
12

Advances 9 A.(i) Bills purchased and All interest-bearing loans and advances
discounted granted to bank’s own staff, in terms of the
licensing conditions and extant operating
(ii) Cash credits,
guidelines for payment banks, as amended
overdrafts and loans
from time to time, shall be included here.
repayable on
demand
All loans to bank’s own staff in terms of the
licensing conditions and extant operating
(iii) Term loans
guidelines for payment banks, as amended
from time to time, repayable on demand
and short-term loans with original maturity
up to one year shall be classified under
‘Cash credits, overdrafts and loans
repayable on demand’.
A ‘Term Loan’ is a loan which has a
specified maturity and is payable in
instalments or in bullet form. All Term
Loans with maturity in excess of one year
shall be classified under this category (i.e.,
A(iii)) whereas, as explained above short
term loans with original maturity up to one
year shall be categorised as loans
repayable on demand.
B.(i) Secured by tangible All advances or part of advances which are
assets secured by tangible assets shall be shown
here.
(ii) Covered by Bank / -
Government
Guarantee
(iii) Unsecured Total of ‘A’ should tally with total of ‘B’.
13

C.
(I)
Advances in India Notes:
(i)
Priority Sectors The general instructions for advances
(ii) granted to bank’s own staff, in terms of the
Public Sector
licensing conditions and extant operating
(iii)
Banks
guidelines for payment banks, as amended
(iv)
Others from time to time, are as follows:
Advances outside 1. Advances shall be reported net of
(II) India provisions made thereon (other than
provisions towards Standard Assets). To
(i) Due from banks
the extent that Floating provisions have not
(ii) Due from others
been treated as Tier 2 capital, they shall
(iii) Bills purchased and also be netted off from advances.
discounted
2. Term loans reported shall not include
(iv) Syndicated loans loans repayable on demand.
(v) Others 3. Interest accrued but not due should not
be reflected here. Instead, it shall be
shown under ‘Interest accrued’ in other
assets.
4. Reverse Repo with banks and other
institutions having original tenors more than
14 days shall be shown under this
Schedule under following head:
i. A.(ii) ‘Cash credits, overdrafts
and loans repayable on demand’’
ii. B.(i) ‘Secured by tangible assets’
iii. C.(I).(iii) Banks (iv) ‘Others’ (as the
case may be)
Fixed 10 (I) Premises Premises, including land, wholly or partly
Assets owned by the bank for the purpose of
(i)
14

At cost as on 31st business including residential premises
(ii) March of the shall be shown against ‘Premises’.
preceding year
In the case of premises and other fixed
(iii) Additions during the assets, the previous balance, additions
year thereto and deductions therefrom during
the year as also the total depreciation
Deductions during
(iv)
written off shall be shown.
the year
Depreciation to date
(II) Other Fixed Assets Furniture and fixtures, vehicles, and all
(including furniture other fixed assets shall be shown under this
and fixtures) head.
At cost as on 31st
(i)
March of the
preceding year
Additions during the
(ii) year
Deductions during
the year
(iii)
Depreciation to date
Other 11 (I) Inter-office The inter-office adjustments balance, if in
Assets adjustments (net) debit, shall be shown under this head. Only
net position of inter-office accounts shall be
shown here. For arriving at the net balance
of inter-office adjustment accounts, all
connected inter-office accounts shall be
aggregated and the net balance, if in debit
only shall be shown representing mostly
items in transit and unadjusted items.
(II) Interest accrued Interest accrued but not due on
investments and advances and interest due
but not collected on investments will be the
15

main components of this item. As banks
normally debit the borrowers’ account with
interest due on the balance sheet date,
usually there may not be any amount of
interest due on advances. Only such
interest as can be realised in the ordinary
course shall be shown under this head.
(III) Tax paid in advance / The amount of advance tax paid, tax
tax deducted at deducted at source (TDS), etc., to the
source extent that these items are not set-off
against relative tax provisions shall be
shown against this item.
(IV) Stationery and Only exceptional items of expenditure on
stamps stationery like bulk purchase of security
paper, loose leaf or other ledgers, etc.,
which are shown as quasi-asset to be
written off over a period of time shall be
shown here. The value shall be on a
realistic basis and cost escalation shall not
be taken into account, as these items are
for internal use.
(V) Non-banking assets Immovable properties / tangible assets
acquired in acquired in satisfaction of claims are to be
satisfaction of claims shown under this head.
(VI) Others This will include items like claims which
have not been met, for instance, clearing
items, debit items representing addition to
assets or, reduction in liabilities which have
not been adjusted for technical reasons,
want of particulars, etc. Accrued income
other than interest shall also be included
here.
16

All non-interest-bearing loans and
advances granted to the bank’s staff shall
be reported here. Cash Margin Deposit with
The Clearing Corporation India Limited
(CCIL) shall be shown here.
Where any item under ‘Others’ exceeds
one per cent of the total assets, particulars
of all such items shall be disclosed in the
notes to accounts.
Continge 12 (I) Claims against the --
nt bank not
Liabilities acknowledged as
debts
(II) Liability for partly paid Liability on partly paid shares, debentures,
investments etc., will be included in this head.
(III) Liability on account of Outstanding forward exchange contracts
outstanding forward shall be included here.
exchange contracts
(IV) Guarantees given on -
behalf of constituents
In India
(i)
Outside India
(ii)
(V) Acceptances, -
endorsements and
other obligations
(VI) Other items for which Arrears of cumulative dividends, bills
the bank is rediscounted, commitments of underwriting
contingently liable contracts, and estimated amount of
contracts remaining to be executed on
17

capital account and not provided for etc.,
are to be included here.
All unclaimed liabilities (where amount due
has been transferred to the Depositors
Education and Awareness Fund
established under the Depositor Education
and Awareness Fund Scheme 2014) shall
be shown here. When Issued (‘WI’)
securities should be recorded in books as
an off-balance sheet item till issue of the
security. The off-balance sheet net position
in the ‘WI’ market should be marked to
market scrip-wise on daily basis at the
day’s closing price of the ‘WI’ security. In
case the price of the ‘WI’ security is not
available, the value of the underlying
security determined as per extant
regulations may be used instead.
Depreciation, if any, should be provided for
and appreciation, if any, should be ignored.
On delivery, the underlying security may be
classified in any of the three categories, viz;
‘Held to Maturity’, ‘Available for Sale’, or
‘FVTPL’, depending upon nature of
contractual cash flow and the intent of
holding, at the contracted price.
Bills for -- -- Bills and other items in the course of
collection collection and not adjusted will be shown
against this item in the summary version
only. No separate schedule is proposed.
(2) Instructions for compilation of profit and loss account
Item Sch Coverage Notes and Instructions for compilation
18

Interest 13 (I) Interest / Includes interest and discount on all types of
earned discount on loans granted to employees out of the bank’s own
advances / bills funds as provided in the licensing conditions and
extant operating guidelines for payment banks to
its own employees out of the bank’s own funds.
(II) Income on Includes all income derived from the investment
investments portfolio by way of interest / discount and
dividend. Any discount or premium on the
securities under HTM, debt securities under AFS
and FVTPL (where contractual cash flow meets
criterion for solely payment of principal and
interest), shall be amortised over the remaining
life of the instrument. The amortised amount shall
be reflected in the financial statements under
item II ‘Income on Investments’ of Schedule 13:
‘Interest Earned’ with a contra in Schedule 8 :
’Investments’.
(III) Interest on Includes interest on balances with RBI and other
balances with banks, call loans, money market placements, etc.
RBI and other
Inter-bank
funds
(IV) Others Includes any other interest / discount income not
included in the above heads.
Notes: The balances in Reverse Repo Interest
Income Account shall be classified under
Schedule 13 (under item III or IV as appropriate).
Other 14 (I) Commission, Includes all remuneration on services such as
Income Exchange and commission on collections, commission /
Brokerage exchange on remittances and transfers, letting
out of lockers, commission on Government
business, commission on other permitted agency
19

business including consultancy and other
services, brokerage, etc., on securities. It does
not include foreign exchange income.
Payments Banks shall disclose particulars of all
such items in the notes to accounts wherever any
item under this head exceeds one percent of total
income.
(II) Profit on sale Includes profit / loss on sale of securities,
of investments furniture, land and building, motor vehicles, gold,
Less: Loss on silver, etc. Only the net position shall be shown.
sale of If the net position is a loss, the amount shall be
investments shown as a deduction.
(III) Profit on The net profit / loss on revaluation of investments
revaluation of shall be shown under this item. Provision for non-
investments performing investments (NPI) shall not be shown
here and instead reflected under Provisions and
Less: Loss on
Contingencies.
revaluation of
investments
(IV) Profit on sale
of land,
buildings and
other assets
Less: Loss on
sale of land,
buildings and
other assets
(V) Profit on Includes profit / loss on dealing in foreign
exchange exchange, all income earned by way of foreign
transactions exchange, commission and charges on foreign
exchange transactions excluding interest which
Less: Loss on
will be shown under interest head. Only the net
exchange
position shall be shown. If the net position is a
transactions
loss, it is to be shown as a deduction.
20

(VI) Income earned
by way of
dividend etc.
from
subsidiaries,
companies,
joint ventures
abroad / in
India
(VII) Miscellaneous Includes income from bank’s properties, security
income charges, and insurance etc., and any other
miscellaneous income. In case any item under
this head exceeds one per cent of the total
income, particulars shall be given in the notes.
Interest 15 (I) Interest on Includes interest paid on all types of deposits
expended deposits including deposits from banks and other
institutions.
(II) Interest on RBI Includes discount / interest on all borrowings and
/ inter-bank refinance from RBI and other banks.
borrowings
(III) Others Includes discount / interest on all borrowings /
refinance from financial institutions. All other
payments like interest on participation
certificates, penal interest paid, etc., shall also be
included here.
Notes:
1. The balances in Repo Interest Expenditure
Account shall be classified under Schedule 15
(under item II or III as appropriate).
2. While acquiring government and other
approved securities, banks should not capitalise
21

the broken period interest paid to seller as part of
cost of the investment, but instead book it as an
expense.
Operating 16 (I) Payments to Includes staff salaries / wages, allowances,
Expenses and provisions bonus, other staff benefits like provident fund,
for employees pension, gratuity, liveries to staff, leave fare
concessions, staff welfare, medical allowance to
staff, etc.
(II) Rent, taxes Includes rent paid by the banks on buildings,
and lighting municipal and other taxes paid (excluding income
tax and interest tax), electricity, and other similar
charges and levies. House rent allowance and
other similar payments to staff shall appear under
the head ‘Payments to and provisions for
employees’.
(III) Printing and Includes books and forms and stationery items
stationery used by the bank and other printing charges
which are not incurred by way of publicity
expenditure.
(IV) Advertisement Includes expenditure incurred by the bank for
and publicity advertisement and publicity purposes including
printing charges of publicity material.
(V) Depreciation Includes depreciation on bank’s own property,
on bank’s cars and other vehicles, furniture, electric fittings,
property vaults, lifts, and leasehold properties, etc.
(VI) Directors’ fees, Includes sitting fees, allowances, and all other
allowances expenses incurred on behalf of directors. The
and expenses daily allowance, hotel charges, and conveyance
charges, etc., which though in the nature of
reimbursement of expenses incurred shall be
included under this head. Similar expenses of
22

Local Board members, committees of the Board,
etc., shall also be included under this head.
(VII) Auditors’ fees Includes the fees paid to the statutory auditors
and expenses and branch auditors for professional services
(including rendered and all expenses for performing their
branch duties, even though they may be in the nature of
auditors’ fees) reimbursement of expenses. If external auditors
have been appointed by banks themselves for
internal inspections and audits and other
services, the expenses incurred in that context
including fees should not be included under this
head but shall be shown under ‘other
expenditure’.
(VIII) Law charges All legal expenses and reimbursement of
expenses incurred in connection with legal
services shall be included here.
(IX) Postage, Includes all postal charges like stamps,
Telegrams, telephones, etc.
Telephones,
etc.
(X) Repairs and Includes repairs to bank’s property, their
maintenance maintenance charges, etc.
(XI) Insurance Includes insurance charges on bank’s property,
insurance premia paid to DICGC, etc., to the
extent they are not recovered from the concerned
parties.
(XII) Other All expenses other than those not included in any
expenditure of the other heads like licence fees, donations,
subscriptions to papers, periodicals,
entertainment expenses, travel expenses, etc.,
shall be included under this head. In case any
23

particular item under this head exceeds one per
cent of the total income, particulars shall be given
in the notes.
Provisions Includes all provisions made for bad and doubtful
and debts, provisions for taxation, provisions for non-
Contingen performing investments, transfers to
cies contingencies, and other similar items.
C. Guidance on specific issues with respect to certain Accounting
Standards
6. A bank shall also be guided by the following with respect to relevant issues in the
application of certain Accounting Standards for the bank:
(1) Accounting Standard 5 – Net Profit or Loss for the Period, Prior Period
Items and Changes in Accounting Policies
(i) The objective of this standard is to prescribe the classification and disclosure
of certain items in the statement of profit and loss so that all enterprises prepare
and present such a statement on a uniform basis.
(ii) Accordingly, this Standard requires the classification and disclosure of
extraordinary and prior period items, and the disclosure of certain items within
profit or loss from ordinary activities. It also specifies the accounting treatment
for changes in accounting estimates and the disclosures to be made in the
financial statements regarding changes in accounting policies.
(iii) Paragraph 4.3 of Preface to the Statements on Accounting Standards issued
by the ICAI states that Accounting Standards are intended to apply only to items
which are material. Since materiality is not objectively defined, it has been
decided that all banks should ensure compliance with the provisions of the
Accounting Standard in respect of any item of prior period income or prior
period expenditure which exceeds one per cent of the total income / total
expenditure of the bank if the income / expenditure is reckoned on a gross basis
or one per cent of the net profit before taxes or net losses, as the case may be
if the income is reckoned net of costs.
(iv) Since the format of the profit and loss accounts of a bank prescribed in Form
B under Third Schedule to the Banking Regulation Act, 1949 does not
24

specifically provide for disclosure of the impact of prior period items on the
current year’s profit and loss, such disclosures, wherever warranted, may be
made in the ‘Notes on Accounts’ to the balance sheet of a bank.
(2) Accounting Standard 9 – Revenue Recognition
(i) Non-recognition of income by the bank in case of non-performing advances
and non-performing investments, in compliance with the regulatory
prescriptions of the RBI, shall not attract a qualification by the statutory auditors
as this would be in conformity with provisions of the standard, as it recognises
postponement of recognition of revenue where collectability of the revenue is
significantly uncertain.
(3) Accounting Standard 11 – The Effects of Changes in Foreign Exchange Rates
AS 11 is applied in the context of the accounting for transactions in foreign
currencies. The issues that arise in this context have been identified and a bank
shall be guided by the following while complying with the provisions of the
standard:
(i) Exchange rate for recording foreign currency transactions
(a) As per paragraphs 9 and 21 of the Standard, a foreign currency transaction
shall be recorded, on initial recognition in the reporting currency, by applying to
the foreign currency amount the exchange rate between the reporting currency
and the foreign currency at the date of the transaction. A bank may face
difficulty in applying the exchange rate prevailing at the date of the transaction
in respect of the items which are not being recorded in Indian Rupees or are
currently being recorded using a notional exchange rate.
(b) A bank, which is in a position to apply the exchange rate prevailing on the date
of the transaction for recording the foreign currency transactions as required
under AS 11 shall comply with the requirements. A bank, which has an
extensive branch network, have a high volume of foreign currency transactions,
and is not fully equipped on the technology front shall be guided by the
following:
(i) Paragraph 10 of the Standard allows, for practical reasons, the use of a rate
that approximates the actual rate at the date of the transaction. The
25

Standard also states that if exchange rates fluctuate significantly, the use
of average rate for a period is unreliable. Since the enterprises are required
to record the transactions at the date of the occurrence thereof, the weekly
average closing rate of the preceding week can be used for recording the
transactions occurring in the relevant week, if the same approximates the
actual rate at the date of the transaction. In view of the practical difficulties
which a bank may have in applying the exchange rates at the dates of the
transactions, and since the Standard allows the use of a rate that
approximates the actual rate at the date of the transaction, the bank may
use average rates as detailed below:
(ii) FEDAI publishes a weekly average closing rate at the end of each week
and a quarterly average closing rate at the end of each quarter for various
currencies.
(iii) In respect of those foreign currency transactions, which are currently not
being recorded in Indian Rupees at the date of the transaction, or are being
recorded using a notional exchange rate shall now be recorded at the date
of the transaction by using the weekly average closing rate of the preceding
week, published by FEDAI, if the same approximates the actual rate at the
date of the transaction.
(iv) If the weekly average closing rate of the preceding week does not
approximate the actual rate at the date of the transaction, the closing rate
at the date of the transaction shall be used. For this purpose, the weekly
average closing rate of the preceding week would not be considered
approximating the actual rate at the date of the transaction if the difference
between (A) the weekly average closing rate of the preceding week, and
(B) the exchange rate prevailing at the date of the transaction, is more than
three and a half per cent of (B).
(v) A bank is encouraged to equip itself to record the foreign currency
transactions at the exchange rate prevailing on the date of the transaction.
26

(ii) Closing rate
(a) Paragraph 7 of the Standard defines ‘Closing rate’ as the exchange rate at the
balance sheet date.
(b) In order to ensure uniformity among banks, closing rate to be applied for the
purposes of AS 11 (revised 2003) for the relevant accounting period would be
the last closing spot rate of exchange announced by FEDAI for that accounting
period.
(4) Accounting Standard 17 – Segment Reporting
The indicative formats for disclosure under ‘AS 17 – Segment Reporting’ are as below.
Format
Part A: Business segments
(Amount in ₹ crore)
Business Treasury Retail Banking Other Banking Business Total
Segments 
Particulars  Current Year Previous Current Year Previous Current Year Previous Current Year Previous
Year Year Year Year
Revenue
Result
Unallocated
expenses
Operating profit
Income taxes
Extraordinary
profit / loss
Net profit
Other information:
Segment assets
Unallocated
assets
Total assets
Segment liabilities
Unallocated
liabilities
Total liabilities
Note (1): No disclosure need be made in the shaded portion
Note (2):
a) The business segments will be ‘Treasury’, ‘Retail Banking’ and ‘Other banking operations’.
27

b) ‘A bank shall adopt their own methods, on a reasonable and consistent basis, for allocation of
expenditure among the segments.
c) ‘Treasury’ shall include the entire investment portfolio.
d) Retail Banking shall include exposures which fulfil the four criteria of orientation, product, granularity,
and low value of individual exposures for retail exposures laid down in the Reserve Bank of India
(Payments Banks – Prudential Norms on Capital Adequacy) Directions, 2025. Individual housing loans
will also form part of Retail Banking segment for the purpose of reporting under AS-17.
e) Other Banking Business includes all other banking operations not covered under ‘Treasury, and
‘Retail Banking’ segments. It shall also include all other residual operations such as para banking
transactions / activities.
f) Besides the above-mentioned segments, a bank shall report additional segments within ‘Other
Banking Business’ which meet the quantitative criterion prescribed in the AS 17 for identifying
reportable segments.
(5) Accounting Standard 18 – Related Party Disclosures
The manner of disclosures required by paragraphs 23 to 26 of AS 18 is illustrated as
below. It may be noted that the format given below is merely illustrative in nature and
is not exhaustive.
(Amount in ₹ crore)
Parent Associates /
Key Relatives of Key
(as per Joint Ventures
Items / Related Party Management Management Total
ownership or
Personnel Personnel
control)
Borrowings#
Deposits#
Placement of deposits#
Advances#
Investments#
Non-funded commitments#
Leasing / HP
arrangements availed#
Leasing / HP
arrangements provided#
Purchase of fixed assets
Sale of fixed assets
Interest paid
Interest received
Rendering of services*
Receiving of services*
Management contracts*
#The outstanding at the year end and the maximum during the year are to be disclosed
*Contract services etc., and not services like remittance facilities, locker facilities etc.
28

Note:
i) Related parties for a bank are its parent, associates /joint ventures, Key Management Personnel
(KMP) and relatives of KMP. KMP are the whole-time directors. Relatives of KMP would be on the
lines indicated in Section 45S of the RBI Act, 1934
ii) The name and nature of related party relationship shall be disclosed, irrespective of whether there
have been transactions, where control exists within the meaning of the Standard. Control would
normally exist in case of parent-subsidiary relationship. The disclosures may be limited to aggregate
for each of the above related party categories and would pertain to the year-end position as also the
maximum position during the year.
iii) Secrecy provisions: If in any of the above category of related parties, there is only one related party
entity, any disclosure would tantamount to infringement of customer confidentiality. In terms of AS 18,
the disclosure requirements do not apply in circumstances when providing such disclosures would
conflict with the reporting enterprise’s duties of confidentiality as specifically required in terms of
statute, by regulator or similar competent authority. Further, in case a statute or regulator governing
an enterprise prohibits the enterprise from disclosing certain information, which is required to be
disclosed, non-disclosure of such information would not be deemed as non-compliance with the
Accounting Standards. On account of the judicially recognised common law duty of a bank to maintain
the confidentiality of the customer details, it need not make such disclosures. In view of the above,
where the disclosures under the Accounting Standards are not aggregated disclosures in respect of
any category of related party, i.e., where there is only one entity in any category of related party, a
bank need not disclose any details pertaining to that related party other than the relationship with that
related party.
29

(6) Accounting Standard 23 – Accounting for Investments in Associates in CFS
(i) This Accounting Standard sets out principles and procedures for recognising, in
the Consolidated Financial Statements (CFS), the effects of the investments in
associates on the financial position and operating results of a group.
(ii) The Standard requires that an investment in an associate shall be accounted for
in CFS under the equity method subject to certain exceptions.
(iii) The term ‘associate’ is defined as an enterprise in which the investor has
significant influence and which is neither a subsidiary nor a joint venture of the
investor.
(iv) ‘Significant influence’ is the power to participate in the financial and / or
operating policy decisions of the investee but not control over those policies. Such
an influence may be gained by share ownership, statute, or agreement.
(v) As regards share ownership, if an investor holds, directly or indirectly through
subsidiaries 20 per cent or more of the voting power of the investee, it is presumed
that the investor has significant influence, unless it can be clearly demonstrated that
this is not the case. Conversely, if the investor holds, directly or indirectly through
subsidiaries less than 20 per cent of the voting power of the investee, it is presumed
that the investor does not have significant influence, unless such influence can be
clearly demonstrated. A substantial or majority ownership by another investor does
not necessarily preclude an investor from having significant influence.
(vi) The issue is whether conversion of debt into equity in an enterprise by a bank
by virtue of which the bank holds more than 20 per cent will result in an investor-
associate relationship for the purpose of AS 23. From the above it is clear that
though a bank may acquire more than 20 per cent of voting power in the borrower
entity in satisfaction of its advances, it may be able to demonstrate that it does not
have the power to exercise significant influence since the rights exercised by it are
protective in nature and not participative. In such a circumstance, such investment
may not be treated as investment in associate under this Accounting Standard.
30

Hence, the test shall not be merely the proportion of investment but the intention to
acquire the power to exercise significant influence.
(7) Accounting Standard 24 – Discontinuing operations
(i) This Standard establishes principles for reporting information about
discontinuing operations.
(ii) Merger / closure of branches of a bank by transferring the assets / liabilities
to the other branches of the same bank may not be deemed as a discontinuing
operation, and hence this Accounting Standard will not be applicable to merger
/ closure of branches of a bank by transferring the assets / liabilities to the other
branches of the same bank.
(iii) Disclosures shall be required under the Standard only when:
(a) discontinuing of the operation has resulted in shedding of liability and
realisation of the assets by the bank, or decision to discontinue an operation
which will have the above effect has been finalised by the bank and
(b) the discontinued operation is substantial in its entirety.
(8) Accounting Standard 25 – Interim Financial Reporting
(i) This Standard prescribes the minimum content of an interim financial report,
and the principles for recognition and measurement in a complete, or
condensed financial statements for an interim period.
(ii) The disclosures required to be made by listed banks in terms of the listing
agreements would not tantamount to interim reporting as envisaged under AS
31

25 and as such AS 25 is not mandatory for the quarterly reporting prescribed
for listed banks.
(iii) The recognition and measurement principles laid down under AS 25 shall
however, be complied with in respect of such quarterly reports.
(9) Accounting Standard 26 – Intangible asset
(i) This Standard prescribes the accounting treatment for intangible assets that are
not dealt with specifically in another accounting standard.
(ii) With respect to computer software which has been customised for the
bank’s use and is expected to be in use for some time, the detailed recognition
and amortisation principle in respect of computer software prescribed in the
Standard adequately addresses these issues and may be followed by banks.
(iii) It may be noted that intangible assets recognised and carried in the balance
sheet of a bank in compliance with AS 26 shall attract provisions of section
15(1) of the Banking Regulation Act 1949, in terms of which a bank is prohibited
from declaring any dividend until any expenditure not represented by tangible
assets is carried in the balance sheet.
(iv) A bank desirous of paying dividend while carrying any intangible assets in
its books must seek exemption from section 15(1) of the Banking Regulation
Act, 1949 from the Central Government.
(10) Accounting Standard 27 - Financial Reporting of Interests in Joint
Ventures
(i) This Standard is applied in accounting for interests in joint ventures and the
reporting of joint venture assets, liabilities, income, and expenses in the
financial statements of ventures and investors, regardless of the structures or
forms under which the joint venture activities take place.
(ii) This Standard identifies three broad types of joint ventures, namely, jointly
controlled operations, jointly controlled assets, and jointly controlled entities.
(iii) In case of jointly controlled entities, where a bank is required to present CFS,
the investment in joint ventures shall be accounted for as per provisions of this
32

Standard. In respect of joint ventures in the form of jointly controlled operations
and jointly controlled assets, this Accounting Standard is applicable for both
solo financial statements as well as CFS.
(iv) It is clarified that though paragraph 26 of the Accounting Standard prescribes
that for the purpose of solo financial statements, investment in jointly controlled
entities is to be accounted as per AS 13, such investment is to be reflected in
the solo financial statements of the bank as per guidelines prescribed by RBI
since AS 13 does not apply to banks.
(v) RRBs sponsored by a bank shall be treated as associates and AS 27 shall not
apply for investment in RRBs. The investment in RRBs shall however, be
accounted in the CFS as per the provisions of AS 23.
(10) Accounting Standard 28 – Impairment of assets
(i) This Standard prescribes the procedures that an enterprise applies to ensure
that its assets are carried at no more than their recoverable amount.
(ii) It is clarified that the Standard shall not apply to inventories, investments,
and other financial assets such as loans and advances, and shall generally be
applicable to a bank in so far as it relates to fixed assets.
(iii) The Standard shall generally apply to financial lease assets and non-
banking assets acquired in settlement of claims only when the indications of
impairment of the entity are evident.
33

Chapter-III Disclosure in Financial Statements – Notes to Accounts
7. A bank shall disclose information as specified in this chapter in the ‘Notes to
Accounts’ of the financial statements.
Explanation 1: These disclosures are intended only to supplement and not to
replace disclosure requirements under other laws, regulations, or accounting and
financial reporting standards.
Explanation 2: A bank is encouraged to make disclosures that are more
comprehensive than the minimum required under these Directions, especially if
such disclosures significantly aid in the understanding of the financial position
and performance.
A. General
8. The items listed in these Directions shall be disclosed in the ‘Notes to Accounts’
to the financial statements. A bank shall make additional disclosures where
material.
B. Presentation
9. In addition to the Schedules to the balance sheet, a summary of ‘significant
accounting policies’ and ‘Notes to Accounts’ shall be disclosed as separate
Schedules.
C. Disclosure requirements
10. A bank shall, at the minimum, furnish the following information in the ‘Notes to
Accounts’. The bank shall note that mere mention of an activity, transaction or
item in the disclosure template does not imply that it is permitted, and the bank
shall refer to the extant statutory and regulatory requirements while determining
the permissibility or otherwise of an activity or transaction. The bank shall
disclose comparative information in respect of the previous period for all amounts
reported in the current period’s financial statements. Further, the bank shall
include comparative information for narrative and descriptive information if it is
relevant to understanding the current period’s financial statements.
34

(1) Regulatory capital
(i) Composition of regulatory capital
(Amount in ₹ crore)
Sr. Previous
Particulars Current Year
No. Year
i) Common Equity Tier 1 capital (CET 1) (net of deductions, if
any)
ii) Additional Tier 1 capital
iii) Tier 1 capital (i + ii)
iv) Tier 2 capital
v) Total capital (Tier 1 +Tier 2)
vi) Total Risk Weighted Assets (RWAs)
vii) CET 1 Ratio (CET 1 as a percentage of RWAs)
viii) Tier 1 Ratio (Tier 1 capital as a percentage of RWAs)
ix) Tier 2 Ratio (Tier 2 capital as a percentage of RWAs)
x) Capital to Risk Weighted Assets Ratio (CRAR) (Total
Capital as a percentage of RWAs)
xi) Leverage Ratio
xii) Amount of paid-up equity capital raised during the year
xiii) Amount of non-equity Tier 1 capital raised during the year,
of which:
Give list* as per instrument type (perpetual debt
instruments, etc.). A bank shall also specify if the
instruments are Basel II or Basel III compliant.
xiv) Amount of Tier 2 capital raised during the year, of which
Give list* as per instrument type (debt capital instruments,
etc.). A bank shall also specify if the instruments are Basel
II or Basel III compliant.
* Example: A bank may disclose as under
Current year Previous year
Amount of non-equity Tier 1 / Tier 2 capital raised during the year of which: ### ###
a) Basel II / III compliant instruments (specify the instrument issued) ### ###
b) Basel II / III compliant instruments (specify the instrument issued) ### ###
(ii) Draw down from Reserves: Suitable disclosures mentioning the amount and
the rationale for withdrawal shall be made regarding any draw down from
reserves.
35

(2) Asset liability management
(i) Maturity pattern of certain items of assets and liabilities
(Amount in ₹ crore)
36
1 yaD ot 2 syad 7 ot 8 syad 41 ot 51 syad 03 ot syad 13 shtnom 2
dna
shtnom 2 revO shtnom 3 ot
shtnom
3 revO
shtnoM
6 ot pu
dna
shtnom
6 revO
raey
1 ot pu dna
dna
raey 1 revO sraey 3 ot pu
dna
sraey 3 revO sraey 5 ot pu 5 revO sraey latoT
Deposits
Advances
Investments
Borrowings
Foreign
Currency
assets
Foreign
Currency
liabilities
Note: A bank shall be guided by the Reserve Bank of India (Payment Banks – Asset Liability
Management) Directions, 2025, as amended from time to time, for associated guidelines on asset
liability-management.

(3) Investments
(i) Composition of investment portfolio
(all amounts in ₹ crore)
(all amounts in ₹ crore)
Current Year Previous Year
HTM FVTPL HTM AFS FVTPL Associates & JVs
Associates & JVs
AFS
At Fair non- Fair non- Fair
HFT At cost Fair Value At cost HFT At cost
cost Value HFT Value HFT Value
I. Investments in India
(i) Government securities
(ii) Other approved securities
(iii) Shares
(iv) Debentures and Bonds
(v) Associates and joint ventures
(vi) Others
Total
Less: Provisions for impairment / NPI
Net
II. Investments outside India
(i) Government securities (including
local authorities)
(i) Associates and joint ventures
(iii) Other investments
Total
Less: Provisions for impairment / NPI
Net
Total investments (I+II)
37

(ii) Fair value hierarchy of investment portfolio measured at fair value on balance sheet
(In ₹ Crore)
Current Year Previous Year
AFS FVTPL AFS FVTPL
Level Level Level Total Level Level Level Total Level Level Level Total Level Level Level Total
1 2 3 1 2 3 1 2 3 1 2 3
I. Investments in India
(i) Government securities
(ii) Other approved securities
(iii) Shares
(iv) Debentures and Bonds
(v) Associates and joint ventures
(vi) Others
Total
II. Investments outside India
(i) Government securities (including local authorities)
(ii) Associates and joint ventures
(iii) Other investments
Total
Total investments (I+II)
38

(iii) Net gains / (losses) on Level 3 financial instruments recognised in AFS-
Reserve and Profit and Loss Account
Current Year Previous Year
Recognised in AFS-Reserve
Recognised in Profit and Loss Account
Note: This disclosure shall exclude Level 3 assets where the valuation of the asset is the price
declared by FBIL / FIMMDA for that asset.
(iv) Details of sales made out of HTM
Details of sales made out of HTM shall be disclosed in the notes to accounts of
the financial statements as per the format mentioned below.
(all amounts in ₹ crore)
Current Year Previous Year
A Opening carrying value of securities in HTM
Carrying value of all HTM securities sold
B
during the year
Less: Carrying values of securities sold
C under situations exempted from regulatory
limit*
D Carrying value of securities sold (D=B-C)
Securities sold as a percentage of opening
E
carrying value of securities in HTM (E=D÷A)
Amount transferred to Capital Reserve in
respect of HTM securities which were sold at
F
a gain
*In any financial year, the carrying value of investments sold out of HTM shall not exceed five
percent of the opening carrying value of the HTM portfolio. The five percent threshold referred to
above shall exclude sale of securities in the situations given under the Reserve Bank of India
(Payments Banks - Classification, Valuation and Operation of Investment Portfolio) Directions,
2025.
(v) Reclassification between categories of investments
In terms of Reserve Bank of India (Payment Banks – Classification, Valuation
and Operation of Investment Portfolio) Directions, 2025, when a bank reclassifies
investments from one category to another category, it shall disclose the details
of such reclassification including the reclassification adjustments in the notes to
the financial statements.

(vi) Movement of provisions for non-performing investments (NPIs) and
investment fluctuation reserve
(Amount in ₹ crore)
Particulars Current Year Previous Year
i) Movement of provisions held towards NPIs
a) Opening balance
b) Add: Provisions made during the year
c) Less: Write off / write back of excess provisions during the year
d) Closing balance
ii) Movement of Investment Fluctuation Reserve
a) Opening balance
b) Add: Amount transferred during the year
c) Less: Drawdown
d) Closing balance
iii) Closing balance in IFR as a percentage of closing balance of investments
in AFS and FVTPL (including HFT) category.
(vii) Non-SLR investment portfolio
(a) Non-performing non-SLR investments
(Amount in ₹ crore)
Sr. No. Particulars Current Year Previous Year
a) Opening balance
b) Additions during the year since 1st April
c) Reductions during the above period
d) Closing balance
e) Total provisions held
(b) Issuer composition of non-SLR investments
(Amount in ₹ crore)
Extent of ‘Below
Extent of Extent of
Issuer Amount Extent of Private Investment
Sr. No. ‘Unrated’ ‘Unlisted’
Placement Grade’
Securities Securities
Securities
(1) (2) (3) (4) (5) (6) (7)
Current Previous Current Previous Current Previous Current Previous Current Previous
year Year year Year year Year year Year year Year
a) PSUs
b) FIs
c) Banks
40

Extent of ‘Below
Extent of Extent of
Issuer Amount Extent of Private Investment
Sr. No. ‘Unrated’ ‘Unlisted’
Placement Grade’
Securities Securities
Securities
d) Private
Corporates
e) Joint Ventures
f) Others
g) Provision held
towards NPIs
Total
41

Note:
1. For a bank, the Total under column 3 shall match with the sum of total of Investments included
under the following categories in Schedule 8 to the balance sheet:
a) Investment in India in
i) Shares
ii) Debentures and Bonds
iii) Subsidiaries and / or Joint Ventures
iv) Others
b) Investment outside India in (where applicable)
i) Government securities (including local authorities)
ii) Subsidiaries and / or joint ventures abroad
iii) Other investments
2. Amounts reported under columns 4, 5, 6 and 7 above may not be mutually exclusive.
(viii) Repo transactions (in face value and market value terms)
(Amount in ₹ crore)
Minimum Maximum Daily average
Outstanding
outstanding outstanding outstanding
as on March
during the during the during the
31
year year year
FV MV FV MV FV MV FV MV
i) Securities sold under repo
a) Government securities
b) Corporate debt securities
c) Any other securities
ii) Securities purchased under reverse repo
a) Government securities
b) Corporate debt securities
c) Any other securities
Note:
(i) ‘FV’ means Face Value and ‘MV’ means Market Value.
(ii) The disclosure shall be as specified in the Reserve Bank of India (Repurchase
Transactions (Repo)) Directions, 2025 as amended from time to time. For ease of
reference the disclosure template as on the date of issuance of this Master Direction has
been reproduced here.
42

Government Security Lending (GSL) transactions (in market value terms)
As at … (current year balance sheet date)
(Amount in ₹ crore)
Total volume
Minimum Maximum Daily average
of Outstanding
outstanding outstanding outstanding
transactions as on March
during the during the during the
during the 31
year year year
year
Securities lent through GSL
transactions
Securities borrowed through GSL
transactions
Securities placed as collateral under
GSL transactions
Securities received as collateral under
GSL Transactions
As at … (previous year balance sheet date)
(Amount in ₹ crore)
Total volume
Minimum Maximum Daily average
of Outstanding
outstanding outstanding outstanding
transactions as on March
during the during the during the
during the 31
year year year
year
Securities lent through GSL
transactions
Securities borrowed through GSL
transactions
Securities placed as collateral under
GSL Transactions
Securities received as collateral under
GSL Transactions
Note: The disclosure shall be as specified in the Reserve Bank of India (Government Securities
Lending) Directions, 2023, as amended from time to time. For ease of reference the disclosure template
as on the date of issuance of this Direction has been reproduced here.
43

(4) Fraud accounts
A bank shall disclose details the number and amount of frauds as well as the
provisioning thereon as per template given below.
Current year Previous year
Number of frauds reported
Amount involved in fraud (₹ crore)
Amount of provision made for such frauds (₹ crore)
Amount of unamortised provision debited from ‘other reserves’ as at the
end of the year (₹ crore)
(5) Exposures
(i) Exposure to capital market
(Amount in ₹ crore)
Particulars Current Year Previous Year
i) Direct investment in equity shares, convertible bonds, convertible
debentures and units of equity oriented mutual funds the corpus of which
is not exclusively invested in corporate debt;
ii) Other (please specify)
Total exposure to capital market
(ii) Risk category-wise country exposure
(Amount in ₹ crore)
Exposure (net) as at Provision held as at Exposure (net) as at Provision held as at
Risk Category* March… March… March… March…
(Current Year) (Current Year) (Previous Year) (Previous Year)
Insignificant
Low
Moderately Low
Moderate
Moderately High
High
Very High
Total
*Till a bank moves over to internal rating systems, it shall use the seven-category classification followed
by Export Credit Guarantee Corporation of India Ltd. (ECGC) for the purpose of classification and making
provisions for country risk exposures. ECGC shall provide to a bank, on request, quarterly updates of
their country classifications and shall also inform banks in case of any sudden major changes in country
classification in the interim period.
44

Note: If a bank has no exposure to country risk in both the current and previous year, it may omit
disclosure of the table while mentioning that it has no exposure to country risk.
(6) Intra-group exposures: A bank shall make the following disclosures for the
current year with comparatives for the previous year:
(i) Total amount of intra-group exposures
(ii) Total amount of top 20 intra-group exposures
(iii) Percentage of intra-group exposures to total exposure of the bank on
customers
(iv) Details of breach of limits on intra-group exposures and regulatory action
thereon, if any.
(7) Derivatives
(i) Details of derivative portfolio
(all amounts in ₹ crore)
Current year Previous Year
Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Level 1 Level 2 Level 3
Interest Rate Derivatives
MTM – Assets
MTM – Liabilities
Net Gain / Loss recognised in Profit
&Loss Account
Exchange Rate Derivatives
MTM – Assets
MTM – Liabilities
Net Gain / Loss recognised in Profit
&Loss Account
Other Derivatives (specify)
MTM – Assets
MTM – Liabilities
Net Gain / Loss recognised in Profit
&Loss Account
(ii) Forward rate agreement / Interest rate swap
(Amount in ₹ crore)
Particulars Current Year Previous Year
i) The notional principal of swap agreements
ii) Losses which would be incurred if counterparties failed to fulfil
their obligations under the agreements
iii) Collateral required by the bank upon entering into swaps
45

Particulars Current Year Previous Year
iv) Concentration of credit risk arising from the swaps (for
example, exposures to particular industries, or swaps with
highly geared companies.)
v) The fair value of the swap book
(Note - If the swaps are linked to specific assets, liabilities, or
commitments, the fair value shall be the estimated amount that
the bank would receive or pay to terminate the swap
agreements as on the balance sheet date. For a trading swap
the fair value shall be its mark to market value)
Note: Nature and terms of the swaps including information on credit and market risk and the accounting
policies adopted for recording the swaps shall also be disclosed.
(iii) Exchange traded interest rate derivatives
(Amount in ₹ crore)
Sr.
Particulars Current Year Previous Year
No.
Notional principal amount of exchange traded interest rate
i)
derivatives undertaken during the year (instrument wise)
Notional principal amount of exchange traded interest rate
ii)
derivatives outstanding as on 31st March ….(instrument wise)
Notional principal amount of exchange traded interest rate
iii)
derivatives outstanding and not ‘highly effective’ (instrument wise)
Mark to market value of exchange traded interest rate derivatives
iv)
outstanding and not ‘highly effective’ (instrument wise)
(iv) Disclosures on risk exposure in derivatives
(a) Qualitative disclosures: A bank shall disclose its risk management policies
pertaining to derivatives with particular reference to the extent to which derivatives
are used, the associated risks and business purposes served. The disclosure shall
also include:
(i) the structure and organisation for management of risk in derivatives trading,
(ii) the scope and nature of risk measurement, risk reporting and risk monitoring
systems,
46

(iii) policies for hedging and / or mitigating risk and strategies and processes for
monitoring the continuing effectiveness of hedges / mitigants, and
(iv) accounting policy for recording hedge and non-hedge transactions;
recognition of income, premiums and discounts; valuation of outstanding
contracts; provisioning, collateral and credit risk mitigation.
(b) Quantitative disclosures
(Amount in ₹ crore)
Current Year Previous Year
Sr.
Particular Currency Interest rate Currency Interest rate
No
Derivatives derivatives Derivatives derivatives
a) Derivatives (Notional Principal Amount)
Marked to Market Positions [1]
b) i) Asset (+)
ii) Liability (-)
Likely impact of one percentage change in
d)
interest rate (100*PV01)
Maximum and Minimum of 100*PV01
e)
observed during the year
[1] The net position shall be shown either under asset or liability, as the case may be, for each
type of derivatives.
(8) Transfers to Depositor Education and Awareness Fund (DEA Fund)
(Amount in ₹ crore)
Sr. No.
Particulars Current Year Previous Year
i) Opening balance of amounts transferred to DEA Fund
ii) Add: Amounts transferred to DEA Fund during the year
iii) Less: Amounts reimbursed by DEA Fund towards claims
iv) Closing balance of amounts transferred to DEA Fund
A bank shall specify here that the closing balance of the amount transferred to DEA Fund, as disclosed above, are also
included under 'Schedule 12 - Contingent Liabilities - Other items for which the bank is contingently liable' or 'Contingent
Liabilities - Others,' as the case may be.
(9) Disclosure of complaints
(i) Summary information on complaints received by a bank from customers and
from the Offices of Ombudsman (previously office of banking ombudsman)
47

Current Previous
Sr. No Particulars
Year Year
Complaints received by the bank from its customers
1. Number of complaints pending at beginning of the year
2. Number of complaints received during the year
3. Number of complaints disposed during the year
3.1 Of which, number of complaints rejected by the bank
4. Number of complaints pending at the end of the year
Maintainable complaints received by the bank from Office of Ombudsman
Number of maintainable complaints received by the bank from Office of
5.
Ombudsman
Of 5, number of complaints resolved in favour of the bank by Office of
5.1.
Ombudsman
Of 5, number of complaints resolved through conciliation / mediation /
5.2
advisories issued by Office of Ombudsman
Of 5, number of complaints resolved after passing of Awards by Office of
5.3
Ombudsman against the bank
Number of Awards unimplemented within the stipulated time (other than those
6.
appealed)
Note: Maintainable complaints refer to complaints on the grounds specifically mentioned in Integrated Ombudsman
Scheme, 2021 (Previously Banking Ombudsman Scheme, 2006) and covered within the ambit of the Scheme.
(ii) Top five grounds of complaints received by the bank from customers
% increase /
Number of
Grounds of Number of decrease in the Number of
complaints Of 5, number of
complaints, complaints number of complaints
pending at the complaints pending
(i.e., complaints received complaints pending at the
beginning of the beyond 30 days
relating to) during the year received over the end of the year
year
previous year
1 2 3 4 5 6
Current Year
Ground - 1
Ground - 2
Ground - 3
Ground - 4
Ground - 5
Others
Total
Previous Year
Ground - 1
Ground - 2
Ground - 3
Ground - 4
Ground - 5
Others
Total
48

Note: As per Master List for identifying grounds of complaints as provided in Appendix 1 to circular
CEPD.CO.PRD.Cir.No.01/13.01.013/2020-21 dated January 27, 2021 on ‘Strengthening the Grievance
Redress Mechanism of Banks’.
2. Internet /
3. Account opening / difficulty
1. ATM / Debit Cards Mobile / Electronic 4. Mis-selling / Para-banking
in operation of accounts
Banking
6. Pension and
7. Levy of charges without
facilities for senior
5. Direct Sales Agents prior notice / excessive 8. Cheques / drafts / bills
citizens /
charges
differently abled
10. Exchange of
coins, issuance /
12. Facilities for customers visiting the
9. Non-observance of Fair acceptance of
11. Staff behaviour branch / adherence to prescribed
Practices Code small
working hours by the branch, etc
denomination
notes and coins
13. Others
(10) Disclosure of penalties imposed by the RBI
(i) Penalties imposed by the RBI under the provisions of the (a) Banking
Regulation Act, 1949, (b) Payment and Settlement Systems Act, 2007, and (iii)
Government Securities Act, 2006 (for bouncing of SGL) shall be disclosed in the
‘Notes to Accounts’ to the balance sheet in the concerned bank’s next Annual
Report.
(ii) A bank shall make appropriate disclosures on the nature of the breach, number
of instances of default and the quantum of penalty imposed.
(iii) The defaulting participant in a reverse repo transaction shall make appropriate
disclosure on the number of instances of default as well as the quantum of penalty
paid to the RBI during the financial year.
(11) Disclosures on remuneration
(i) A bank is required to make disclosure on remuneration of Whole Time
Directors / Chief Executive Officers / Material Risk Takers on an annual basis at
the minimum, in its Annual Financial Statements.
(ii) The bank shall make the disclosures in table or chart format and make
disclosures for previous as well as the current reporting year.
49

(iii) Further, a bank (to the extent applicable), shall disclose the following information:
Type of disclosure Information
Qualitative Information relating to the composition and mandate of the Nomination and
(a)
Remuneration Committee.
Information relating to the design and structure of remuneration processes and the
(b)
key features and objectives of remuneration policy.
Description of the ways in which current and future risks are taken into account in the
(c) remuneration processes. It should include the nature and type of the key measures
used to take account of these risks.
Description of the ways in which the bank seeks to link performance during a
(d)
performance measurement period with levels of remuneration.
A discussion of the bank’s policy on deferral and vesting of variable remuneration and
(e) a discussion of the bank’s policy and criteria for adjusting deferred remuneration
before vesting and after vesting.
Description of the different forms of variable remuneration (i.e., cash and types of
(f) share-linked instruments) that the bank utilises and the rationale for using these
different forms.
Current Previous
Year Year
Quantitative Number of meetings held by the
disclosures Nomination and Remuneration
(g)
(The quantitative Committee during the financial year and
disclosures should only remuneration paid to its members.
cover Whole Time (i) Number of employees having
Directors / Chief received a variable remuneration award
Executive Officer / during the financial year.
Material Risk Takers) (ii) Number and total amount of sign-on
(h)
/ joining bonus made during the financial
year.
(iii) Details of severance pay, in addition
to accrued benefits, if any.
(i) Total amount of outstanding deferred
remuneration, split into cash, shares
and share linked instruments and other
(i) forms.
(ii) Total amount of deferred
remuneration paid out in the financial
year.
50

Type of disclosure Information
Breakdown of amount of remuneration
awards for the financial year to show
(j)
fixed and variable, deferred and non-
deferred.
(i) Total amount of outstanding deferred
remuneration and retained
remuneration exposed to ex post explicit
and / or implicit adjustments.
(ii) Total amount of reductions during the
(k)
financial year due to ex post explicit
adjustments.
(iii) Total amount of reductions during
the financial year due to ex post implicit
adjustments.
(l) Number of MRTs identified.
(i) Number of cases where malus has
been exercised.
(ii) Number of cases where clawback
(m)
has been exercised.
(iii) Number of cases where both malus
and clawback have been exercised.
General Quantitative The mean pay for the bank as a whole
Disclosure (excluding sub-staff) and the deviation
(n)
of the pay of each of its WTDs from the
mean pay.
(iv) A bank shall also disclose remuneration paid to the non-executive directors on an
annual basis at the minimum, in its Annual Financial Statements.
(v) Share-linked instruments should be fair valued on the date of grant by the bank
using Black-Scholes model. The fair value thus arrived at should be recognised as
an expense beginning with the accounting period for which approval has been
granted.
(12) Other Disclosures
(i) Business ratios
51

Particular Current Year Previous Year
i) Interest Income as a percentage to Working Funds1
ii) Non-interest income as a percentage to Working Funds1
iii) Cost of Deposits
iv) Net Interest Margin2
v) Operating Profit as a percentage to Working Funds1
vi) Return on Assets3
vii) Business (deposits plus advances) per employee4 (in ₹ crore)
viii) Profit per employee (in ₹ crore)
1 Working funds to be reckoned as average of total assets (excluding accumulated losses, if any) as
reported to RBI in Form X for Payment Banks, during the 12 months of the financial year.
2 Net Interest Margin = Net Interest Income / Average Interest Earning Assets Where Net Interest Income=
Interest Income – Interest Expense.
3 Return on Assets would be with reference to average working funds (i.e., total of assets excluding
accumulated losses, if any).
4 For the purpose of computation of business per employee (deposits plus advances), inter-bank deposits
shall be excluded.
(ii) Bancassurance business: The details of fees / brokerage earned in respect
of insurance broking, agency and bancassurance business undertaken by a bank
shall be disclosed for both the current year and previous year.
(iii) Marketing and distribution: A bank shall disclose the details of fees /
remuneration received in respect of the marketing and distribution function
(excluding bancassurance business) undertaken by it.
(iv) Provisions and contingencies
(Amount in ₹ crore)
Provision debited to Profit and Loss Account Current Year Previous Year
i) Provisions for NPI
ii) Provision made towards Income tax
iii) Other Provisions and Contingencies (with details)
(v) Implementation of IFRS converged Indian Accounting Standards (Ind AS)
52

(a) As the legislative amendments recommended by the RBI are under
consideration of the Government of India, implementation of Indian Accounting
Standards (Ind AS) for banks has been deferred till further notice.
(b) However, a bank shall continue to disclose the strategy for Ind AS
implementation, including the progress made in this regard. These disclosures
shall be made until implementation of Ind AS.
(vi) Payment of DICGC Insurance Premium
1[A bank shall disclose in the annual report that ‘deposit insurance premium as
applicable was paid to DICGC within the prescribed timelines’. In case the bank
has not paid as per the required timelines, the same shall also be disclosed.]
1
Substituted with effect from April 01, 2026 vide Reserve Bank of India (Payments Banks – Financial Statements:
Presentation and Disclosures) –Amendment Directions, 2026 dated March 16, 2026.
53

Chapter-IV Consolidated Financial Statements
11. In addition to standalone financial statements prepared as per the formats
prescribed under Section 29 of Banking Regulation Act, 1949, a bank, whether
listed or unlisted, shall prepare and disclose CFS in its Annual Reports, in the
formats prescribed in Annex II.
Explanation: The CFS shall normally include a consolidated balance sheet,
consolidated statement of profit and loss, principal accounting policies, and ‘Notes
to Accounts’.
12. The CFS for the bank shall also be submitted to the Department of Supervision
(DoS), RBI within one month from the publication of the bank’s annual accounts.
13. CFS shall be prepared in terms of the applicable accounting standards for the
bank.
Explanation 1: For the purpose of financial reporting, the terms 'parent', ‘associate’,
‘joint venture’, 'control', and 'group' shall have the same meaning as ascribed to
them in the applicable accounting standards for the bank.
Explanation 2: An RRB shall be treated as an ‘associate’ in the CFS of its sponsor
bank.
14. The responsibility of determining whether a particular entity shall be included or
not for consolidation would be that of the Management of the parent entity.
Provided that, the Statutory Auditors shall mention in their audit report, if they are
of the opinion that an entity which ought to have been consolidated has been
omitted.
15. In cases where different entities in a group are governed by different accounting
norms laid down by the concerned regulator(s), the balance sheet size may be
used to determine the dominant activity and accounting norms specified by its
regulator may be used for the consolidation of similar transactions and events.
Provided that, where banking is the dominant activity, accounting norms applicable
to a bank shall be used for consolidation purposes in respect of like transactions
and other events in similar circumstances.
54

16. The valuation of investments by the bank in associates that are not included using
the ‘Equity Method’ shall be as per the relevant valuation norms issued by the RBI.
17. The Board of Directors of the bank shall invariably record the intent of holding the
investment for a temporary period or otherwise at the time of investment in the
associate, joint venture.
Provided that, in the absence of a record of such intent by the Board at the time of
such investment, the investee entity shall be consolidated into the CFS.
55

Chapter-V Other Instructions
A. Inter-branch account - provisioning for net debit balance
18. A bank shall adhere to following guidelines for unreconciled inter-branch account
entries.
(1) The bank shall segregate the credit entries outstanding for more than five years in
the inter-branch account and transfer them to a separate ‘Blocked Account’ which
shall be shown under ‘Other Liabilities and Provisions - Others’.
(2) Any adjustment from the Blocked Account should be permitted only with the
authorisation of two officials, one of whom should be from the Controlling / Head
Office if the amount exceeds ₹ one lakh.
(3) The balance in Blocked Account shall be reckoned as a liability for the purpose of
the maintenance of Cash Reserve Ratio (CRR) and Statutory Liquidity Ratio
(SLR).
(4) The bank shall maintain category-wise (head-wise) accounts for various types of
transactions put through inter-branch accounts, so that the netting can be done
category-wise. As on the balance sheet date, the bank shall segregate the debit
and credit entries remaining unreconciled for more than six months and arrive at
the net position category-wise, while also considering the balance in the Blocked
Account.
(5) The net debit under all the categories of inter-branch accounts shall be aggregated
and a provision equivalent to 100 per cent of the aggregate net debit shall be made.
Provided that, the bank shall ensure that the net debit in one category is not set-
off against net credit in another category.
B. Reconciliation of Nostro account and treatment of outstanding entries
19. Treatment of outstanding entries in Nostro accounts shall of a bank shall be as
under:
(1) The bank shall take steps to have a strong control over reconciliation and put in
place a system of real-time reconciliation, which provides for immediate escalation
of differences, if any.
56

(2) There shall be close monitoring of pending items in Nostro accounts by top
management at short intervals.
(3) All unreconciled credit entries in Nostro accounts which are outstanding for more
than three years shall be transferred to a Blocked Account and shown as
outstanding liabilities.
(4) The balance in the Blocked Account shall be reckoned for the purpose of CRR /
SLR.
(5) A bank shall make 100 per cent provision in respect of all unreconciled debit entries
in the Nostro accounts, which are outstanding for more than two years.
C. Transfer to / appropriation from Reserve funds
20. In terms of section 17(1) of the Banking Regulation Act, 1949 a bank is required to
transfer, out of the balance of profit as disclosed in the profit and loss account, a
sum equivalent to not less than 20 per cent of such profit to Reserve Fund. These
provisions are a minimum statutory requirement. However, to augment capital, a
bank shall transfer not less than 25 per cent of the ‘net profit’ before appropriations
to the Statutory Reserve.
21. Unless specifically allowed by extant regulations, the bank shall take prior approval
from the RBI before any appropriation is made from the Statutory Reserve or any
other reserve.
22. Banks are further advised that,
(1) all expenses including provisions and write-offs recognised in a period, whether
mandatory or prudential, shall be reflected in the profit and loss account for the
period as an ‘above the line’ item (i.e., before arriving at the net profit / loss for the
year);
(2) draw down from reserves, with the prior approval of RBI, shall be effected only
‘below the line’ (i.e. after arriving at the net profit / loss for the year); and
(3) suitable disclosures shall be made of such draw down in the ‘Notes on Accounts’
to the Balance Sheet.
(4) subject to compliance with applicable laws, banks, without prior approval of RBI,
can utilise the share premium account for meeting issue expenses of shares to the
57

extent that such expenses are incremental costs directly attributable to the
transaction that otherwise would have been avoided.
Provided that, the share premium account shall not be utilised for writing off the
expenses relating to the issue of debt instruments.
Explanation: For the purposes of this Direction, issue expenses shall include
registration and other regulatory fees, payments made to legal, accounting, and
other professional advisers, printing costs, and stamp duties.
D. Provisioning for fraud
23. In respect of provisioning for frauds, a bank that has reported the fraud within the
prescribed time shall have the option to make the provision for the same over a
period, not exceeding four quarters, commencing from the quarter in which the
fraud has been detected.
24. Where the bank chooses to provide for the fraud over two to four quarters and this
results in the full provisioning being made in more than one financial year, subject
to compliance with applicable laws, it may debit reserves other than the Statutory
Reserve by the amount remaining un-provided at the end of the financial year by
credit to provisions.
Provided that, it should subsequently reverse the debits to the reserves
proportionately and complete the provisioning by debiting profit and loss account,
in the successive quarters of the next financial year.
25. Where there has been delay, beyond the prescribed period, in reporting the fraud
to the RBI, the entire provisioning is required to be made at once.
E. Unreconciled balances
26. Unreconciled credit balances in any transitory account representing unclaimed
balances shall not be transferred to the profit and loss account or to any reserves.
F. Deferred tax liability (DTL) on Special Reserve created under Section
36(1) (viii) of the Income Tax Act, 1961
27. A bank shall make provisions for DTL on the Special Reserve created under
Section 36(1)(viii) of Income Tax Act, 1961.
58

G. Window dressing
28. A bank shall ensure that balance sheet and profit and loss account reflect true and
fair picture of its financial position.
29. Instances of window dressing of financials, short provisioning, under-reporting /
incorrect computation of exposure / risk weight, incorrect capitalisation of
expenses, deliberate inflation of asset and liabilities at the end of the financial year
and subsequent reversal immediately in next financial year, etc., shall be viewed
seriously and appropriate penal action in terms of the provisions of the Banking
Regulation Act, 1949 shall be considered.
59

Chapter-VI Repeal and Other Provisions
A. Repeal and saving
30. With the issue of these Directions, the existing Directions, instructions, and
guidelines relating to Financial Statements- Presentation and Disclosures as
applicable to Payments Banks stand repealed, as communicated vide circular
DOR.RRC.REC.302/33-01-010/2025-26 dated November 28, 2025. The
Directions, instructions, and guidelines repealed prior to the issuance of these
Directions shall continue to remain repealed.
31. Notwithstanding such repeal, any action taken or purported to have been taken,
or initiated under the repealed Directions, instructions, or guidelines shall
continue to be governed by the provisions thereof. All approvals or
acknowledgments granted under these repealed lists shall be deemed as
governed by these Directions. Further, the repeal of these Directions,
instructions, or guidelines shall not in any way prejudicially affect:
a. any right, obligation or liability acquired, accrued, or incurred thereunder;
b. any penalty, forfeiture, or punishment incurred in respect of any contravention
committed thereunder;
c. any investigation, legal proceeding, or remedy in respect of any such right,
privilege, obligation, liability, penalty, forfeiture, or punishment as aforesaid; and
any such investigation, legal proceedings or remedy may be instituted,
continued, or enforced and any such penalty, forfeiture or punishment may be
imposed as if those directions, instructions, or guidelines had not been repealed.
B. Application of other laws not barred
32. The provisions of these Directions shall be in addition to, and not in derogation of
the provisions of any other laws, rules, regulations or directions, for the time being
in force.
C. Interpretations
33. For the purpose of giving effect to the provisions of these Directions or in order to
remove any difficulties in the application or interpretation of the provisions of these
Directions, the RBI may, if it considers necessary, issue necessary clarifications in
60

respect of any matter covered herein and the interpretation of any provision of
these Directions given by the RBI shall be final and binding.
(Sunil T S Nair)
Chief General Manager
61

Annex I
Format of the Balance Sheet and Profit and Loss Account
(Form A and Form B reproduced from original Government of India Notification
SO 240(E) dated March 26, 1992)
Form A
Form of Balance Sheet
Balance Sheet of ___________________ (here enter name of the Banking
Company)
Balance as on March 31, ________ (Year)
(000’s omitted)
Schedule As on March As on March 31,
31, ___ ___
(Current year) (Previous year)
Capital and Liabilities
Capital 1
Reserves and Surplus 2
Deposits 3
Borrowings 4
Other liabilities and
5
provisions
Total
Assets
Cash and balances with
6
RBI
Balance with banks and
money at call and short 7
notice
Investments 8
Advances 9
Fixed Assets 10
Other Assets 11
Total
Contingent liabilities 12
Bills for collection
62

Schedule 1 – Capital
As on March 31, As on March 31,
___ ___
(Current year) (Previous year)
I For Nationalised Banks
Capital (Fully owned by Central Government)
II. For Banks incorporated outside India
Capital
(i) The amount brought in by banks by way of
start-up capital as prescribed by RBI should be
shown under this head.
(ii) Amount of deposit kept with the RBI under
Section 11(2) of the Banking Regulation Act,
1949.
Total
III. For Other Banks
Authorised Capital
(_______ shares of ₹ ______ each)
Issued Capital
(_______ shares of ₹ ______ each)
Subscribed Capital
(_______ shares of ₹ ______ each)
Called-up Capital
(_______ shares of ₹ ______ each)
Less: Calls unpaid
Add: Forfeited shares
63

Schedule 2 - Reserves and Surplus
As on March 31, As on March 31,
___ ___
(Current year) (Previous year)
I. Statutory Reserves
Opening Balance
Additions during the year
Deductions during the year
II. Capital Reserves
Opening Balance
Additions during the year
Deductions during the year
III. Share Premium
Opening Balance
Additions during the year
Deductions during the year
IV. Revenue and Other Reserves
Opening Balance
Additions during the year
Deductions during the year
V. Balance in Profit and Loss Account
Total (I, II, III, IV and V)
64

Schedule 3 – Deposits
As on March As on March 31,
31, ___ ___
(Current year) (Previous year)
A.I. Demand deposits
(i) From banks
(ii) From others
II. Savings Bank Deposits
III. Term Deposits
(i) From banks
(ii) From others
Total (I, II and III)
B. (i) Deposits of branches in India
(ii) Deposits of branches outside India
Total
65

Schedule 4 – Borrowings
As on March 31, As on March 31,
___ ___
(Current year) (Previous year)
I. Borrowings in India
(a) RBI
(b) Other banks
(c) Other institutions and agencies
II. Borrowings outside India
Total (I and II)
Secured borrowings included in I and II
above -Rs.
66

Schedule 5 - Other Liabilities and Provisions
As on March 31, As on March 31,
___ ___
(Current year) (Previous year)
I. Bills payable
II. Inter-office adjustment (net)
III. Interest accrued
IV. Others (including provisions)
Total
67

Schedule 6 - Cash and Balances with RBI
As on March 31, As on March 31,
___ ___
(Current year) (Previous year)
I. Cash in hand (including foreign currency
notes)
II. Balances with RBI
(i) in Current Account
(ii) in Other Accounts
Total (I and II)
68

Schedule 7 - Balances with Banks and Money at Call and Short Notice
As on March 31, As on March 31,
___ ___
(Current year) (Previous year)
I. In India
(i) Balances with banks
(a) in Current Accounts
(b) in Other Deposit Accounts
(ii) Money at call and short notice
(a) with banks
(b) with other institutions
Total (i and ii)
II. Outside India
(i) in Current Accounts
(ii) in Other Deposit Accounts
(iii) Money at call and short notice
Total (i, ii and iii)
Grand Total (I and II)
69

Schedule 8 – Investments
As on March 31, As on March 31,
___ ___
(Current year) (Previous year)
I. Investments in India in
(i) Government Securities
(ii) Other approved securities
(iii) Shares
(iv) Debentures and Bonds
(v) Subsidiaries and / or joint ventures
(vi) Others (to be specified)
Total
II. Investments outside India in
(i) Government securities (including local
authorities)
(ii) Subsidiaries and / or joint ventures
abroad
(iii) Others investments (to be specified)
Total
Grand Total (I and II)
70

Schedule 9 – Advances
As on March As on March
31, ___ 31, ___
(Current year) (Previous year)
A. (i) Bills purchased and discounted
(ii) Cash credits, overdrafts and loans
repayable on demand
(iii) Term loans
Total
B. (i) Secured by tangible assets
(ii) Covered by Bank / Government
Guarantees
(iii) Unsecured
Total
C.I. Advances in India
(i) Priority Sectors
(ii) Public Sector
(iii) Banks
(iv) Others
Total
C.II. Advances outside India
(i) Due from banks
(ii) Due from others
(a) Bills purchased and discounted
(b) Syndicated loans
(c) Others
Total
Grand Total (C.I and II)
71

Schedule 10 - Fixed Assets
As on March 31, As on March 31,
___ ___
(Current year) (Previous year)
I. Premises
At cost as on 31st March of the preceding
year
Additions during the year
Deductions during the year
Depreciation to date
II. Other Fixed Assets (including furniture and
fixtures)
At cost as on 31st March of the preceding
year
Additions during the year
Deductions during the year
Depreciation to date
Total (I and II)
72

Schedule 11 - Other Assets
As on March 31, As on March 31,
___ ___
(Current year) (Previous year)
I. Inter-office adjustments (net)
II. Interest accrued
III. Tax paid in advance / tax deducted at source
IV. Stationery and stamps
V. Non-banking assets acquired in satisfaction
of claims
VI. Others *
Total
* In case there is any unadjusted balance of loss the same may be shown under this item with appropriate foot-note.
73

Schedule 12 - Contingent Liabilities
As on March 31, As on March 31,
___ ___
(Current year) (Previous year)
I. Claims against the bank not acknowledged
as debts
II. Liability for partly paid investments
III. Liability on account of outstanding forward
exchange contracts
IV. Guarantees given on behalf of constituents
(a) In India
(b) Outside India
V. Acceptances, endorsements and other
obligations
VI. Other items for which the bank is
contingently liable
Total
74

Form B
Form of Profit and Loss Account for the year ended on
31st March (Year)
(000’s omitted)
Schedule Year ended on Year ended on
March 31, ___ March 31, ___
(Current year) (Previous year)
I. Income
Interest earned 13
Other income 14
Total
II. Expenditure
Interest expended 15
Operating expenses 16
Provisions and contingencies
Total
III. Profit / Loss
Net profit / loss(-) for the year
Profit / loss(-) brought forward
Total
IV. Appropriations
Transfer to statutory reserves
Transfer to other reserves
Transfer to Government /
proposed dividend
Balance carried over to balance
sheet
75

Schedule 13 - Interest Earned
Year ended on Year ended on
March 31, ___ March 31, ___
(Current year) (Previous year)
I. Interest / discount on advances / bills
II. Income on investments
III. Interest on balances with RBI and other
inter-bank funds
IV. Others
V. Total
76

Schedule 14 - Other Income
Year ended on Year ended on
March 31, ___ March 31, ___
(Current year) (Previous year)
I. Commission, exchange and brokerage
II. Profit on sale of investments
Less: Loss on sale of investments
III. Profit on revaluation of investments
Less: Loss on revaluation of investments
IV. Profit on sale of land, buildings and other
assets
Less: Loss on sale of land, buildings and
other assets
V. Profit on exchange transactions
Less: Loss on exchange transactions
VI. Income earned by way of dividends, etc.
from subsidiaries / companies and / or joint
ventures abroad / in India
VII. Miscellaneous Income
Total
Note: Under items II to V loss figures shall be shown in brackets
77

Schedule 15 - Interest Expended
Year ended on Year ended on
March 31, ___ March 31, ___
(Current year) (Previous year)
I. Interest on deposits
II. Interest on RBI / Inter-bank borrowings
III. Others
Total
78

Schedule 16 - Operating Expenses
Year ended on Year ended on
March 31, ___ March 31, ___
(Current year) (Previous year)
I. Payments to and provisions for
employees
II. Rent, taxes and lighting
III. Printing and stationery
IV. Advertisement and publicity
V. Depreciation on bank’s property
VI. Director’s fees, allowances and
expenses
VII. Auditors’ fees and expenses (including
branch auditors)
VIII. Law charges
IX. Postages, Telegrams, Telephones, etc.
X. Repairs and maintenance
XI. Insurance
XII. Other expenditure
Total
79

Annex II
Format of Consolidated Financial Statements
Format of Consolidated Balance Sheet
Consolidated Balance Sheet of ________________________
(here enter name of the parent bank)
Balance Sheet as on March 31 (Year)
(Amount in ₹ crore)
Particulars Schedule As on 31.3.__ As on 31.3.__
(current (previous
year) year)
Capital and Liabilities
Capital 1
Reserves and Surplus 2
Minority Interest 2A
Deposits 3
Borrowings 4
Other Liabilities and Provisions 5
Total
Assets
Cash and Balances with RBI 6
Balances with banks and money at call and short notice 7
Investments 8
Advances 9
Fixed Assets 10
Other Assets 11
Goodwill on Consolidation
Total
Contingent liabilities 12
Bills for collection
80

Annex II
Format of Consolidated Profit and Loss Account
Consolidated Profit and Loss Account of ________________________
(here enter name of the parent bank)
Profit and Loss Account for the year ended March 31 ___
(Amount in ₹ crore)
Particulars Schedule Year ended Year ended
31.3.__ 31.3.__
(current year) (previous year)
I. Income
Interest earned 13
Other income 14
Total
II. Expenditure
Interest expended 15
Operating expenses 16
Provisions and contingencies
Total
Share of earnings / loss in Associates
Consolidated Net profit / (loss) for the year before
deducting Minorities' Interest
Less: Minorities' Interest
Consolidated profit / (loss) for the year attributable to
the group
Add: Brought forward consolidated profit / (loss)
attributable to the group
III. Appropriations
Transfer to statutory reserves
Transfer to other reserves
Transfer to Government / Proposed dividend
Balance carried over to consolidated balance sheet
Total
Earnings per Share1
1Earning per share shall be for both basic and diluted.
81

Schedule 1 – Capital
Particulars As on 31.3.__ As on 31.3.__
(current year) (previous year)
Authorised Capital
(.... Shares of ₹ ... each)
Issued Capital
(.... Shares of ₹ ... each)
Subscribed Capital
(.... Shares of ₹ ... each)
Called-up Capital
(.... Shares of ₹ ... each)
Less: Calls unpaid
Add: Forfeited shares
Total
Schedule 2 - Reserves and Surplus1
As on 31.3.__ As on 31.3.__
(current year) (previous
year)
Statutory Reserves
Capital Reserves
Capital Reserve on Consolidation
Share Premium
Other Reserves (specify nature)
Revenue and other Reserves
Balance in Profit and Loss Account2
Total
1Opening balances, additions and deductions since the last consolidated balance sheet shall be shown under each of
the specified heads.
2In case of loss the balance shall be shown as a deduction.
Schedule 2A - Minority Interest
As on 31.3.__ As on 31.3.__
(current year) (previous
year)
Minority interest at the date on which the parent-subsidiary relationship
came into existence
Subsequent increase / decrease
Minority interest on the date of balance sheet
Schedule 3 – Deposits
As on 31.3.__ As on 31.3.__
Particulars
(current year) (previous year)
A. I. Demand Deposits
(i) From banks
(ii) From others
II. Savings Bank Deposits
III. Term Deposits
(i) From banks
(ii) From others
Total (I, II and III)
82

Schedule 3 – Deposits
As on 31.3.__ As on 31.3.__
Particulars
(current year) (previous year)
B. (i) Deposits of branches in India
(ii) Deposits of branches outside India
Total (i and ii)
Schedule 4 - Borrowings
Particulars As on 31.3.__ As on 31.3.__
(current year) (previous year)
I. Borrowings in India
(i) RBI
(ii) Other banks
(iii) Other institutions and agencies
II. Borrowings outside India
Total (I and II)
Secured borrowings included in I and II above
Schedule 5 - Other Liabilities and Provisions
As on 31.3.__ As on 31.3.__
Particulars
(current year) (previous year)
I. Bills payable
II. Inter-office adjustments (net)
III. Interest accrued
IV. Deferred Tax Liabilities
V. Others (including provisions)
Total
Schedule 6 - Cash and Balances with RBI
As on 31.3.__ As on 31.3.__
Particulars
(current year) (previous year)
I. Cash in hand (including foreign currency notes)
II. Balances with RBI
(i) In Current Account
(ii) In Other Accounts
Total (I and II)
Schedule 7 - Balances with Banks and Money at Call and Short Notice
As on 31.3.__ As on 31.3.__
Particulars
(current year) (previous year)
I. In India
(i) Balances with banks
(a) In Current accounts
(b) In Other Deposit accounts
(ii) Money at call and short notice
(a) With banks
(b) With other institutions
Total (i and ii)
II. Outside India
(i) In Current Account
(ii) In Other Deposit Accounts
(iii) Money at call and short notice
Total (i, ii and iii)
83

Schedule 7 - Balances with Banks and Money at Call and Short Notice
As on 31.3.__ As on 31.3.__
Particulars
(current year) (previous year)
Grand Total (I and II)
Schedule 8 – Investments
Particulars As on 31.3.__ As on 31.3.__
(current year) (previous year)
I. Investments in India in
(i) Government securities
(ii) Other approved securities
(iii) Shares
(iv) Debentures and Bonds
(v) Associates
(vi) Others (to be specified)
Total
II. Investments outside India in
(i) Government securities (including local authorities)
(ii) Associates
(iii) Other investments (to be specified)
Total
Grand Total (I and II)
III. Investments in India
(i) Gross value of investments
(ii) Aggregate of provisions for depreciation
(iii) Net investment
IV. Investments outside India
(i) Gross value of investments
(ii) Aggregate of provisions for depreciation
(iii) Net investment
Schedule 9 – Advances
As on 31.3.__ As on 31.3.__
Particulars
(current year) (previous year)
A. (i) Bills purchased and discounted
(ii) Cash credits, overdrafts and loans
repayable on demand
(iii) Term loans
Total (i, ii and iii)
B. (i) Secured by tangible assets (includes advances against
book debts)
(ii) Covered by Bank / Government Guarantees
(iii) Unsecured
Total (i, ii and iii)
C. I. Advances in India
(i) Priority sector
(ii) Public sector
(iii) Banks
(iv) Others
Total (I, ii, iii and iv)
C.II. Advances outside India
(i) Due from banks
(ii) Due from others
(a) Bills purchased and discounted
84

Schedule 9 – Advances
As on 31.3.__ As on 31.3.__
Particulars
(current year) (previous year)
(b) Syndicated Loans
(c) Others
Total (i and ii)
Grand Total (C.I. and C.II.)
Schedule 10 - Fixed Assets
As on 31.3.__ As on 31.3.__
Particulars
(current year) (previous year)
I. Premises
At cost as on March 31 of the preceding year
Additions during the year
Deductions during the year
Depreciation to date
IA. Premises under construction
II. Other Fixed Assets (including furniture and fixtures)
At cost (as on 31 March of the preceding year)
Additions during the year
Deductions during the year
Depreciation to date
IIA. Leased Assets
At cost as on March 31 of the preceding year
Additions during the year including adjustments
Deductions during the year including provisions
Depreciation to date
Total (I, IA, II and IIA)
III. Capital-Work-in progress (including Leased Assets) net of
Provisions
Total (I, IA, II, IIA and III)
Schedule 11 - Other Assets
Particulars As on 31.3.__ As on 31.3.__
(current year) (previous year)
I. Inter-office adjustments (net)
II. Interest accrued
III. Tax paid in advance / tax deducted at source
IV. Stationery and stamps
V. Non-banking assets acquired in satisfaction of claims
VI. Deferred Tax assets
VII. Others
Total
Schedule 12 - Contingent Liabilities
As on 31.3.__ As on 31.3.__
Particulars
(current year) (previous year)
I. Claims against the bank not acknowledged as debts
II. Liability for partly paid investments
85

III. Liability on account of outstanding forward exchange
contracts
IV. Guarantees given on behalf of constituents
(a) In India
(b) Outside India
V. Acceptances, endorsements and other obligations
VI. Other items for which the bank is contingently liable
Total
Schedule 13 - Interest Earned
Year ended 31.3.__ Year ended 31.3.__
Particulars
(current year) (previous year)
I. Interest / discount on advances / bills
II. Income on investments (including dividend)
III. Interest on balances with RBI and other inter-bank funds
IV. Others
Total
Schedule 14 - Other Income
Year ended 31.3.__ Year ended 31.3.__
Particulars
(current year) (previous year)
I. Commission, exchange and brokerage
II. Profit on sale of land, buildings and other assets
Less: Loss on sale of land, buildings and other
assets
III. Profit on exchange transactions
Less: Loss on exchange transactions
IV. Profit on sale of investments (net)
Less: Loss on sale of investments
V. Profit on revaluation of investments
Less: Loss on revaluation of investments
VI. a) Lease finance income
b) Lease management fee
c) Overdue charges
d) Interest on lease rent receivables
VII. Miscellaneous income
Total
Schedule 15 - Interest Expended
Year ended 31.3.__ Year ended 31.3.__
Particulars
(current year) (previous year)
I. Interest on deposits
II. Interest on RBI / inter-bank borrowings
III. Others
Total
Schedule 16 - Operating Expenses
Year ended Year ended
Particulars 31.3.__ 31.3.__
(current year) (previous year)
I. Payments to and provisions for employees
86

II. Rent, taxes and lighting
III. Printing and stationery
IV. Advertisement and publicity
V. (a) Depreciation on bank's property other than Leased Assets
(b) Depreciation on Leased Assets
VI. Directors' fees, allowances and expenses
VII. Auditors' fees and expenses (including branch auditors' fees
and expenses)
VIII. Law charges
IX. Postage, telegrams, telephones, etc.
X. Repairs and maintenance
XI. Insurance
XII. Amortisation of Goodwill, if any
XIII. Other expenditure
Total
Note:
1. Additional line items, headings and sub-headings shall be presented in the consolidated balance sheet
and consolidated profit and loss account and schedules thereto when required by a statute, Accounting
Standards or when such a presentation is necessary to present the true and fair view of the group's financial
position and operating results. In the preparation and presentation of CFS Accounting Standards issued by
the ICAI, to the extent applicable to banks, and the guidelines issued by RBI shall be followed.
87